[Music]
We definitely see more lingering
inflation.
>> That reaction function is definitely
more tilted towards the weakness in the
labor market as opposed to potential
upside, you know, risks from inflation.
>> I don't think the Fed really set us up
for 50.
>> Given the inflation backdrop, it'll be
pretty much premature to start cutting
aggressively at this point.
>> We still have a lot of additional
inflation from tariffs in front of us.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, it's CPI day. Investors
are positioning for another soft
inflation print. As 3 days of gain sends
equities to fresh record highs,
President Trump is still pushing for the
Federal Reserve to go big. The data
drops at 8:30 Eastern time. And we have
lowered the bar so much that people are
looking at CPI that probably is going to
come in yet again above that 2% above 3%
possibly increasing from last month on
an annualized basis. And yet people are
talking about well it's cooling down and
so everything is great to cut rates. It
highlights how everyone is focusing on
the labor market and focusing on looking
through inflation which raises the
question what would it take for
inflation to get the market's attention.
>> Muted tariff pass through so far. Muted
so far. Does that open the door for this
Fed to be a little bit more aggressive
next week?
>> It sounds like it, especially when the
Federal Reserve Chairman Jay Powell said
at Jackson Hole that it's going to be
one-time price adjustments, not at the
same time, which means basically we can
look through any sort of hot CPI print.
Now, on the heels of the PPI, President
of United States is calling for 50
without actually saying 50. He said
yesterday, "No inflation, too late." Aka
Jay Powell must lower the rate big right
now. What does big mean? He's not
calling for 25. He's calling for a jumbo
rate cut
>> 50 and then again and again and again
and maybe well into 2026 with comments
like this from the seauite on Wall
Street. James Fraser speaking to Jamanna
Beti over in Dubai saying our client
base now is really starting to act with
confidence. Put that together with the
language coming from David Solomon over
at Goldman Sachs who doesn't look at
this market and see any restrictiveness
from this Federal Reserve whatsoever.
And when you take a look at
profitability of S&P 500 companies and
the fact that they've increased their
EPS projections in double digit levels,
the fact that Jim Zelter yesterday from
Apollo is on and said that he still sees
that inflationary pressure coming back.
You put this together, you've asked the
question, and I think it's an important
one. Is the Fed cutting at to spur some
sort of reaceleration or cutting into a
reaceleration that could allow inflation
to be stickier? Watch for the long end
of the yield curve. Right now, it's
pretty quiet, so not exactly expressing
those concerns. Jane Frasier said that
their client base is now starting to act
with confidence. She talked about the
cloud that is now basically evaporating
in terms of policy uncertainty. Said
corporates are now on the front foot
because they have policy clarity when it
comes to tax, when it comes to tariffs,
and also this welcoming of what is going
on in Washington in terms of
deregulation.
>> The data 8:30 Eastern time futures this
morning firmer by a tenth of 1% on the
S&P 500. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Steve Chevron of Federated
with stocks at alltime highs. Vomar Les
of KKR on Oracle's monster rally and Joe
Davis of Vanguard counting us down to
CPI data. We begin this hour with stocks
sitting at record highs ahead of today's
inflation print. Steve Chevron of
Federated writing the following. While
everyone is looking for a mini recession
to come, we think it already happened.
Weak data in the rearview mirror is
primarily how the Fed views the world
and will lead them to a cut next week.
Steve, welcome to the program, sir. Good
morning to you. Do you believe then the
worst of the data is behind us?
I think it is. I mean, I think the data
that we've been getting is showing it's
it's it's again, it's new information
about old news. We know the earlier part
of this year was weaker. The immediate
aftermath of Liberation Day, John, we
saw it. We had a negative GDP print. We
had what I think once they take the
revisions and break them down into
monthly numbers, we'll show a string of
negative jobs months. We know that
earnings estimates fell. We know that
confidence fell. And we also know that
that's reversing itself. We know that
confidence has since rebounded. So have
earnings estimates. We see that the
market's acting with early cycle. The
Fed's looking in the rearview mirror.
It's going to lead them to cut. We think
they're going to do the right thing for
the wrong reason. They need to cut
because there are parts of the economy
that have been in recession. Housing,
autos, shipping, low and middle American
consumers have been in that position.
And so it is both true at the same time
in our view that the economy is set to
reacelerate. And it is also true that
it's appropriate to cut. And we've said
all along that we think that six cuts
between now and the end of next year is
not only what is appropriate, but what
is likely.
>> So Steve, let's talk about market
outcomes. The Federal Reserve is going
to cut interest rates as you're looking
for a pick up in the US economy. Where
do you want to place your bets in the
market at the moment? I
>> think you've gotten a preview over the
last month or so, right? I mean, you're
starting to see early cyclicals start to
start to perform, right? Whether it's
some of the home builders, whether it's
the banks. um whether it's even some of
the shipping companies, whether it's the
consumer play. Again, remember if you're
a if you're a consumer that has debt,
you have been under pressure for high
rates for two or three years here. You
get a little bit of relief and that's
going to help. Uh and then also look at
small caps. You saw small caps
outperform by 6 and a half% last month.
That really is the nexus between rate
sensitivity and cyclicality. And we
think the economy is going to turn up a
bit. Uh and we think rates are going to
come down. You said we've gotten a
preview over the past couple of weeks,
and I think that we have, and it's come
in the form of gold reaching all-time
highs, and it raises the question, has
the US tacitly accepted a 3% inflation
target by cutting rates into what seems
like a persistently elevated inflation
backdrop with a lot of concerns about it
remaining in place for the next couple
of months?
>> No, I I I don't think so, Lisa. I I I
you know, yes, headline inflation
numbers are somewhere between 2 and 1/2
and 3% right now. But again, and this is
the difference between looking through
the windshield and you know, the cracked
rear view mirror that I think the Fed
has gotten itself caught into. And if
you look in the in the windshield,
here's what you see. You see an economy
that has added at best 35,000 jobs on
average over the next 3 months. That is
not a recipe for wage inflation.
services are 60% of of of CPI. You have
home prices that are negative four
months in a row nationally. That's not
common. That's not common. And again,
that's a third of CPI. So, all right, I
get it. The the the inflation rate over
the last 12 months is between 2 and a
half and 3%.
But our job as professional investors or
market forecasters or economists or
policy makers is to look at where that's
going. And if home prices are coming
down and wage inflation or the
ingredients for wage inflation are not
there, then at some point you got to
make the call that inflation is heading
lower. If you wait for it to get to two
before you start to remove restrictive
policy, then you're going to find
yourself very much behind the curve and
you're going to have a much deeper
slowdown than you would otherwise have
to have. We're not talking about getting
easy policy. We're talking about going
from 200 basis points of restrictive
policy down to something closer to
neutral. I don't think that's accepting
a 3% inflation target.
>> The picture that you're painting
suggests that we could see bonds and
stocks rally at the same time. That we
could see even long bonds rally if what
the Fed is trying to do is not
necessarily be behind the curve as much
as they may already be. Is that what
you're saying that you could actually
see another kind of Goldilocks scenario
in the next 12 months?
I I think that environment is more
bullish for stocks than it is for bonds,
at least on the long end. I I think, you
know, in our view, what is most likely
to happen is, you know, kind of two-year
yields are likely to come down to where
the federal funds rate is headed. We
think that's 3%. Um, now, if you want to
argue and say it's 3 and a/4 or 3 and
1/2, you know, that's fine, but
somewhere near neutral. So, the 2-year
yield, we think has some real material
downside. the 10-year yield at, you
know, essentially 4%. We think that's
about where it belongs. You know, in our
view, a kind of two and a half%
inflation rate, a 3% federal funds rate
with about, you know, let's call it 100
basis points at term premium, uh, is
about right. So, we think the long end
of the curve has actually done most of
its rallying. What we think you'll see
instead is short bonds will rally. We
think equities can continue to rally.
Um, but but that long end, I think,
probably has a little less opportunity.
Steve, we heard from Jane Frasier today
speaking to one of her colleagues and
talking about the fact that clients now
have confidence because there's more
clarity in Washington when it comes to
things like tariffs that's actually
being debated in the courts. What if I
get struck down? Will that upend how you
feel about potentially where the market
is right now?
>> Yeah. So, so one it our view is that it
it probably won't get struck down
particularly because the administration
has made such a case about the national
security implications but you know so
that's our base case view. If they were
struck down I think the most apparent
negative impact would be on the long end
of the bond curve. Whether or not you
like tariffs you know that's up that's
up to you. Um, but what's clear is that
the tariff revenue is the offset to the
one big beautiful bill in terms of in
terms of revenue. If all of a sudden,
you know, $4 trillion of revenue over 10
years goes away, that's going to push
long bond rates up. Um, so again,
doesn't matter how we got here from a
bond market perspective, tariffs going
away would be a negative, particularly
on the long end of the curve. Um, but
remember, there are other remedies. And
so I I expect that what you would see if
I was struck down as an example is that
the administration would pivot to other
authorities to at least kind of
implement a a 10 or 15% across the board
tariff for some period of time, they
would then move into sectoral tariffs.
So I I I think if if what you're waiting
for is tariffs are going away, I don't
think that's going to happen. I think
this is the core tenant from the
administration. They view it on national
security grounds and it might be messier
but they're going to be in place and I
think the level which is really what the
market is most interested in is what's
the overall level of this has been
established at 15% I think it would be
recreated at something close to 15%. So,
is there uncertainty around tariffs?
Sure. But is there the kind of
uncertainty that existed in April that
caused the economy to freeze? And I
think that's behind us.
>> And looking forward, you note that next
year there's the World Cup, there's a
250th anniversary anniversary. What kind
of economic impact do you see from just
those two events in 2026?
>> I I think there's a lot of economic
impact coming from a number of things,
right? So, first off, you know, monetary
easing likely starts next week. And
we're not talking about 25 or 50. I
really don't care about 20 or 50. What
we're talking about is it five cuts or
six cuts over the next 18 months. That's
the bigger question. And it's somewhere
in that range unless we get really
surprised by the data. That's
stimulative or at least it's less
restrictive. Then you have the stimulus
of the one big beautiful bill that hits
in January. We have not changed
withholding uh tables so far, which
means you're probably looking at bigger
than expected
um tax return seasons and back to school
has been good so far in terms of
spending. It's up 3.8%. So the consumer
is holding in, but there's more stimulus
to come in terms of of tax returns next
year and then yeah, you have these major
economic events and it does lead to
tourism and it does lead to
infrastructure. And so, you know, can
you quantify it? at this point is
probably premature. But when you start
to take a look at the totality, the
monetary policy that's less restrictive,
tax relief on both corporates and
individuals, and then some of these
other economic catalysts that can start
to kick in, you get a picture of a 2016
that looks pretty robust for sorry 2026
that looks pretty robust for the United
States.
>> Hey Steve, appreciate the update. Steve
Chevron there a federated Hermes
constructive on this equity market to
address your point head on cutting
interest rates into a pickup in economic
growth
>> but one that's warranted and that's what
he sort of highlighted and it's
something we've been struggling with
this is a multi-cylinder economy that's
quite complicated and which aspect the
Fed can potentially affect is the one
that they need to that according to
Steve Cheron
>> stocks are positive this morning by
close to 0.2% 2% on the S&P 500. The
data about 2 hours and 18 minutes away
with an update on stories elsewhere with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's the latest
with Vonyie Quinn. Hey, Vonyie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. And good morning.
A search is underway for the killer of
conservative activist Charlie Kirk.
Kirk, the founder of Turning Point USA,
was shot as he was speaking to an
outdoor crowd at Utah Valley University.
The 31-year-old was a close ally of
President Trump, who posted about the
incident on social media and ordered
American flags to be lowered to half
staff until Sunday.
The Trump administration is appealing
the ruling, blocking the president from
firing Fed Governor Lisa Cook. The
government is asking an appeals court to
overturn the ruling, which said that the
president did not have cause to fire
Cook under the Federal Reserve Act. Any
ruling against Trump by the appeals
court would likely be challenged quickly
at the Supreme Court.
Hundreds of South Korean workers
detained in a Georgia raid will fly home
this afternoon after the two count's top
diplomats met in Washington and agreed
to resolve a dispute. President Donald
Trump agreed to South Korean demands
that the workers would not be
handcuffed. According to Yonap News, the
US will also consider a new visa
category to prevent future problems. And
that is your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Vonnie, thank you. I appreciate it. More
from Vonyie in about 30 minutes time. Up
next on the program, a manhunt underway.
>> I'm filled with grief and anger at the
heinous assassination of Charlie Kirk.
My administration will find each and
every one of those who contributed to
this atrocity and to other political
violence.
>> Up next, we'll get you the latest with
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Busy morning coming up for financial
markets. It starts with this at 8:15
Eastern time, an ECB rate decision. And
then later at 8:30 Eastern time, two
points of data for you, jobless claims
and US CPI, the main event later this
morning. Going into that, your scores
look like this. Equities at all-time
highs on the S&P 500. 3-day winning
streak. Equities firmer by 0.2% in the
bond market. Yields just about unchanged
on a 2-year this morning at 354. Let's
take it down to Washington under Savas
this morning. A manhunt underway.
I'm filled with grief and anger at the
heinous assassination of Charlie Kirk.
My administration will find each and
every one of those who contributed to
this atrocity and to other political
violence. It's long past time for all
Americans and the media to confront the
fact that violence and murder are the
tragic consequence of demonizing those
with whom you disagreed.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Authorities expanding their search for
the killer of conservative activist
Charlie Kirk. With the latest from the
nation's capital is Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall. Hey Tyler.
>> Hey John. Good morning. The suspect is
still at large and we know that the FBI
is working closely with state and local
law enforcement on the investigation.
And officials say that around 2 uh 12:20
p.m. Mountain time yesterday, a single
shot was fired from a building about 200
yards away from where Kirk was
addressing this crowd at Utah Valley
University. And officials say that the
shot appears to have come from a
rooftop. Closed circuit surveillance
footage shows a person dressed in dark
clothing on that rooftop and that person
is believed to be the suspect. Other
than that, no other details have really
been released, including what type of
weapon may have been used or whether or
not it was recovered. Utah officials do
say that they took two people into
custody, but after questioning, they
were released. About 3,000 people were
in attendance at this event alongside
six local police officers and Kirk's own
security detail. Utah's Governor Spencer
Cox in a statement said that this was a
targeted attack and called it a
political assassination. Of course,
Cook, a very prominent conservative
activist and a very close ally of
President Trump, who you heard just
there. He was one of the first to
confirm that Kirk had been killed. John,
the president has ordered flags to half
staff across the country until uh at
least this weekend, September 14th.
>> Tana Kendall in Washington DC. Tara,
thank you. Lisa, I think we were all
gripped by these developments yesterday.
Just utterly heartbreaking. is
devastating, especially for a democracy
where people hearken back to the words
attributed to Voltater. You know,
regardless of what you think about a
person's beliefs, I defend your right
defended my death, your right to say it.
And why have we gotten so far away from
that type of rhetoric and debate in this
country? The political violence deeply
upsetting to us this morning.
>> And it's been pervasive in this country.
This is a second summer of this. And
what we should be seeing is what we are
seeing is both sides coming out and
condemning this and it needs to be
condemned to the sharpest degree and
there needs to be really a seismic shift
I think in this country for political
discourse.
>> There is a manhunt underway. Any
developments this morning of course this
morning we'll share with you on this
story. Let's get you up the latest
elsewhere in Washington DC with Tobin
Marcus of Wolf Research. Tobin welcome
to the program sir. Want to talk about
trade of all things if we can move on
from such a delicate subject. Trans
shipping has been a massive focus for
this administration. Now there are some
signs that Mexico is falling into line.
Toby, what do you make of the latest?
>> Yeah, I mean there's been talk about uh
Mexico imposing tariffs on China as a
way of securing uh more favorable tariff
treatment from the US. going back to to
um the I mean before liberation day
there was talk about uh the fortress
North America strategy in Mexico's
possible uh cooperation with our our
efforts to pressure China on on tariffs
as a way of getting themselves better
treatment thus far that hasn't
materialized but it certainly makes
sense that that's something that they're
looking at. You know I think there are
reasons for them to be uh interested in
that domestically and we've seen the
same thing on the European side as well.
They have their own concerns about trade
with China even separate from their uh
their efforts to appease the US. So, you
know, I think that the developments
there are uh encouraging about the
long-term future of what USMCA
renegotiation looks like, but we
probably have a ways to go.
>> Well, where's Canada in all of this?
Because we see Mexico taking action. We
know the Treasury Secretary said he
would welcome if Canada followed suit.
Yeah, there's been a little bit less uh
concern like it's it's been a less um
intense focus on the Canadian side just
because that's been less the story sort
of Mexico as a nearshoring destination
as a Chinese FDI destination um has been
one of the sort of major uh narratives
in response to the imposition of the
original tariffs on China during Trump
1.0. Uh so I think that has been an area
of greater focus, but you know to your
point, the administration has has
indicated we like to see similar action
from uh from the Canadians. Um that's
been a little bit more fraud in general
with their uh kind of retaliation uh
against US metals tariffs uh in the
first instance this spring. Uh but you
know, I think that if it's on the table
for Mexico, it's probably going to end
up being on the table for Canada as
well.
>> Well, if Mexico is appeasing the White
House with this move, what will they get
back because of it?
So there's uh definitely still hope that
they will uh get some relief from the
metals tariffs. There's been talk for
months about the possibility of getting
some kind of quota system in place for
uh steel as opposed to the current steel
tariffs. Um we are uh uh net exporters
of steel to Mexico. So I think there's
reason to be hopeful there although of
course it has not come through yet. Um
and then I you know I think they're
looking just to have uh USMCA preserves
going forward as a a concept. I think
we've seen some commitment from uh the
White House to the notion that USMCA
should be seen as a regional competitive
strategy that this is something that
we're uh invested in. You know, the sort
of modifications of the auto tariffs
over time, for example, show some
appreciation of the importance of those
supply chains across North America uh
even as the the US tariff uh posture
keep shifting. So, you know, I think
they do still need to uh appease the US
for the sake of getting the, you know,
uh USMCA renegotiations next year in a
good place even if they're not getting,
you know, massive immediate relief in
the near term.
>> Tobin, do you get the sense that there's
been a sort of rethink of tariffs on the
global stage? I'm looking for example at
Mexico's plans to raise tariffs by 50%
on uh Chinese cars, steels, and textiles
in order to get some sort of better
treatment from the US. And then it
shows, okay, this is also going to raise
$3.8 billion for the Mexican government.
How much of the revenue side of things
playing more into the discussion
internationally when they talk about
potential uh tariffs in response to the
US maybe to plate the US, maybe to
counter the US.
>> You know, I think for most other
countries, the tariffs that they're
contemplating aren't going to reach the
level that they make the revenue sort of
the lynch pin of their fiscal
situations. But obviously we are seeing
fiscal pressures across both developed
and developing economies globally. So uh
any little bit of revenue uh certainly
will be seen as helpful uh for a lot of
countries. But I think in the first
instance they are you know looking at on
the one hand mllifying the US and on the
other hand kind of playing whack-a-ole
with global trade flows. If you're
pushing cheap Chinese exports out of the
US that creates sort of even more
overcapacity problems on global markets
which has been driving a lot of the
conversation um on the European side.
Tobin, just quickly, do you think AIPA
is going to withstand the Supreme Court
or is it going to be struck down?
>> My base case is that the Supreme Court
will reverse the two lower court rulings
and uphold the tariffs uh under AIPA. I
think it's a close call for the Supreme
Court. Uh I'm at about a 40% chance that
they strike it down, which I do think is
significantly lower than uh the
consensus seems to be forming in the 60
or 65% range. Um, and I think that, you
know, I think that this court is going
to be uh pretty apprehensive about
certainly about second-guessing what
constitutes an emergency. You know,
we've heard some talk that maybe they'll
distinguish between the AIPA uh
reciprocal tariffs and the IPA fentanyl
trafficking tariffs. That would put them
in the business of saying what is and is
not an emergency, which I think they
really don't want to do. Um, but I think
they're going to be nervous about
upending the entire tariff regime that's
been built up under AIPA. Uh, and sort
of throwing themselves into the middle
of the political process that way. But I
think it's a close enough call.
Investors need to be planning for both
possibilities. Um uh and if they do get
struck down, you know, I I don't think
it's a huge disaster for bond markets.
It's a onetime cost to refund about
hundred billion dollars worth of tariffs
in all likelihood, but going forward, I
think they'll recreate something very
similar to what we have in place now.
And the the sort of long-term finances
of the US are not going to be changed.
>> Tobin, appreciate it. Toby Marcus of
Wolf Research actually wanted some time.
We've run out of time to follow up on
something he's calling for next year,
which is the most underappreciated thing
he thinks is going to happen here is the
stimulus that the tax bill offers, the
economy through 26.
>> This is what a lot of people are talking
about with the reaceleration in the US
economy. And the reason why people think
that the Fed can cut rates even with a
reaceleration poise to happen.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Voldemar Lesac of KKR and what
Oracle surge means for AI. Plus, we'll
touch base with you with your morning
movers. Cler pulling back after strong
trading debuts yesterday from New York.
This is Bloomberg
[Music]
Live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. Three days of gains on the S&P
500. Adding some weight to the rally
this morning. Down by 0.2. 2 on the S&P
record higher the NASDAQ 100 up by 0.25
to five so far this morning. In the bond
market, your yield curve looks like
this. 2-year, 10year, and 30-year bond
yields just a tiny little bit lower this
morning. At the front end of the curve,
on 10's just north of 4%, 2 hours away
from CPI data in America. That's the
cross asset price action. Let's get you
some movers, some morning movers. Let's
cross over to Yahara for more. Hey,
Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Oracle shares are still
climbing today, up over 1% after they
had their best day yesterday since 1992
with that 36% surge in that stock over a
very bullish outlook. One that involves
a deal with OpenAI, according to the
Wall Street Journal, that could be worth
up to $300 billion over 5 years. And
that major rally yesterday also
delivered the biggest 1day wealth jump
ever, briefly making co-founder Larry
Ellison the richest man in the world.
And we stick with tech and move on to
Alibaba. ADRs are rising nearly 3% after
the company unveiled plans to raise just
over $3 billion in a convertible bond
sale to fund its AI ambitions. This is
part of a bigger trend we've seen with
Chinese tech companies as the
competition in AI heats up. And for
Baba, it plans to use the funds to scale
up data centers and invest heavily in AI
because remember Baba said earlier this
year that it would spend more than $50
billion over the next three years on AI
infrastructure. And we end on CLA. The
buy now pay later firm had a strong
debut yesterday surging 15% after
raising $1.37 billion but as you can see
today it is giving up some of those
gains down 2.3%. John
>> Yhara thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yihara in the next hour on our
radar this morning. Our top story a
manhunt underway. Police still searching
for the shooter responsible for killing
conservative activist Charlie Kirk
yesterday. According to the FBI a person
of interest was taken into custody but
later released. Revving up trade talks,
Mexico planning to impose tariffs of as
much as 50% on cars and other products
made by China and several other Asian
countries. The move coming ahead of
expected talks over North America's free
trade agreement. And finally, President
Donald Trump keeping up the pressure on
Fed Governor Lisa Cook. The DOJ quickly
appealing a judge's decision to keep
Cook on the FOMC ahead of next week's
interest rate decision. It seems like a
two-pronged effort to try to pack the
FOMC, if you want to use Supreme Court
language, which I know you absolutely
despise. But uh one thing that I find
interesting is the likelihood that we
could see uh a person come on the board,
Steven Myron, at the same time that Lisa
Cook could be taken off the board of
governors. Uh and it's sort of this
perfect storm that people are looking at
to possibly talk about a bigger rate cut
than just 25 basis points. This is
obviously though going right to the
Supreme Court at least when it comes to
Lisa Cook because if what we see with
the judge's order that stays, the
president is going to go right to the
Supreme Court and actually they can even
say if the federal court is taking too
long that they want the Supreme Court to
hear this sooner. We heard yesterday
from the White House this ruling will
not be the last say on this matter and
it won't be. I think for investors it's
just whether or not she's going to show
up next week. And right now, according
to the recent ruling, she will be there
at the FOMC. And to your point, Steve
Myin, if he gets his vote on Monday, he
will also be there.
>> You know why I'm irked by the
comparisons to the Supreme Court?
Because when people talk about the FOMC
and say the president might have a
majority, I think it's absolutely
ridiculous. The majority of what? Who?
Who's doing the president's bidding on
the FC? Governor Waller, Governor
Bowman? I don't think so. There's also
an equivalency of the Supreme Court as a
a branch of the government in sort of
comparing it to the FOMC which is
supposedly has a dual mandate and that
is the guiding light and there's a real
question here on one hand you've got the
constitution as the guiding light on the
other hand you've got inflation on one
hand price stability versus uh the
employment picture which is your guiding
light and that should be relatively
objective so it becomes a sort of
controversial feeling which I understand
but yet we hear it all the time and I
just pared it
>> we'll get More data a little bit later
this morning about 2 hours away 8:30
Eastern time. Let's turn to tech. Oracle
shares higher in the pre-market after
gaining the most since 1992 on an
aggressive outlook. Vamar Zazak of the
global head of digital infrastructure at
KKR writing the following. We're living
through the largest buildout since the
interstate highway system a 10 to$15
trillion wave to rewire the global
economy around power compute and
connectivity. Vadmat joins us now for
more. Good morning sir.
>> Good morning.
>> It's good to see you. Thanks for being
here. Let's talk about these demand
numbers. The demand we're seeing is
real. Yes.
>> Yet there is still this conversation
about a monster misallocation of
resources coming together. Where do you
stand on that?
>> Uh it is a really the right question to
ask. We don't see it honestly. Uh I
think if you look at the fundamental
spend relative to any other indicators
from a bubble
stand perspective, right? I mean often
comparisons are drawn to the docom
bubble and you know other housing bubble
etc. It it doesn't appear so um and all
of that compute that is ultimately being
procured is is is getting consumed and
deployed. I think the question that
you're sort of leading into is is there
ultimately a business case for AI to be
made and I think there are a lot of
great data points that would suggest you
know uh adoption is increasing use cases
are increasing um AI is enabling a
tremendous amount across the economy and
and society generally speaking um but
there isn't a killer app so to speak
that would suggest that uh the ROI may
be justifiable. I think the issue for
many people as well who experienced the
dot bubble, the bust and the boom that
followed really afterwards. It took a
long time to find out who the winners
were and to begin with you had to have
everyone throwing money at the wall to
see what sticks and if we go through
this process now there are risks
involved in that. How do you navigate
some of those risks at the moment? It is
it is again another excellent question
which you would expect on a morning show
from you guys but uh but I think you
know our approach at KKR has really been
um pretty simple and disciplined right I
think we focus we clearly are one of the
leaders in digital infrastructure and in
the power ecosystem totality about $65
billion of capital that we've invested
in that over the last few years uh we
have seen the convergence of those two
mega themes which is really interesting
I think we talked about this on the
previous show uh and I I think it's now
really applicable you're seeing data
centers are no longer about racks, it's
about watts and megawatts of power
compute, right? They're AI factories.
Um, and I think that convergence is is
really in place. So, I think for us,
we've been focusing on core and core
plus markets for most of our compute.
This is where uh ultimately data is
being generated and processed by users.
We focus on highquality customers. We do
not chase yield on very speculative
business models. Um I think we focus on
fungeibility in the use of these assets.
It may have been enterprise 5 years ago.
Today it's cloud, tomorrow AI, whatever
may come next. And we ultimately are not
making bets on field of dreams sites.
It's really trying to focus on on on
things that if there's a contract
highquality counterparty, we start
building and deploying capital against
that. That may be all of that seems
logical, but I'm not sure that's
universally adopted in the industry. And
I think we differentiate ourselves in
that approach.
>> I guess that uh one of the fears and
John was alluding to it is this idea
that everyone gets incredibly leveraged
to a couple of key names and make really
big bets for a long-term uh development
at a time where we don't have a great
deal of visibility into how this is
going to be adapted, how this is going
to be really transforming the economy
and frankly the way that we live our
everyday lives. So how do you hedge that
concentration risk at a time where what
you offer is the balance sheet to really
deploy to these big blue chip players?
>> Yeah, I think you you're right. It is it
is almost a barbell strategy. I think if
you look at the market and if you look
at the performance and the halves and
the have nots, it's been sort of that
barbell uh view. I and certainly the
MAG7 are such an incredible driver of of
the growth. 30% of the US spent on on
sort of AI is driven by those three
names. $700 billion capex, 35%
year-over-year. That's, by the way, 700
billion is equivalent to the entire
spend for the fiber buildout in the
'90s. And we're now spending that on an
annual basis, which is sort of
incredible to think about the quantum of
dollars. And so I think if you look at
that that that certainly that the Mag 7,
all of those names, pristine balance
sheets, incredibly free cash flow
generative, right? I think we are
looking at certainly trading multiples
and PE ratios and spend but they're not
overspending relative to the free cash
flow that they're generating from either
their existing core businesses or the
convergence of AI integrated within
their their sort of u you know existing
business models. So so you're right you
have a a customer concentration but the
customer concentration is in fact with
the highest quality names that you would
probably want to do if you're investing
in infrastructure from our point of
view. Where is the concentration
investment when it comes to data centers
versus energy production? And this is
another sort of key question at a time
where people are ba building data
centers as quickly as they can with a
question around deep and whether we can
do this more efficiently with smaller
data centers and less energy and then we
don't have the energy to actually fuel
those data centers that are getting
built. Where do you sort of stack up on
on sort of the dissonance between the
development of those two?
>> And and this is why it's such a
wonderful time to really be alive and
doing what we're doing. And certainly,
you know, an infrastructure investor
wouldn't wouldn't think about being in s
such a growth, you know, industry, but
but it's it's really it's really
incredible. I think if you look at a
couple of stats, we've certainly have
had stagnated sort of demand growth in
the US and the power industry for the
past 20 years. That is now in a massive
inflection point. Globally the
expectation is that data centers will
consume something like 10% of global
power uh in the next 10 years. By the
way that's equivalent to India by 2030.
So if if data centers were a country it
would be third after China and US. So
certainly power consumption is
increasing. There are a couple of
dueling factors. You do have efficiency
which is certainly driven by chip
manufacturings by algorithms which is
which is incredible. That's ultimately
driving the cost of the delivery of the
compute. So just in 18 months if you
think about the tokens which are being
used for AI I think of it you know
training for a marathon we talked about
earlier it's calories for AI token price
has gone has decreased 280x over the
last 18 months which means the adoption
is increasing if you look at about token
usage has increased 4 and a.5,000%. So
certainly usage is increasing. I think
if you just go back to your question, I
think most of the capital today is being
spent on data centers and then there is
an increased capex uh being put in grid
and certainly power generation. So we're
starting to see that trend line actually
converging. But in terms of growth on an
adjusted basis, it's really been those
two that are probably the biggest
drivers of of the capex. Is deregulation
and getting rid of some of the red tape
that comes when it when you have to make
these AI data centers actually keeping
up though with that capex spend you're
seeing?
>> It is it is really interesting because
sort of from a policy perspective
there's two dueling factors that are the
collision course. one is win the AI race
globally and the second is protect the
rate payers which you know in the US
over the last 5 years we've seen about
25% increase in power prices and and I
think there are a couple of things that
are happening and including I think
elimination of some of the red tape and
and streamlining of approvals and I
think those are great things by the
administration to help enable the
buildout of this infrastructure you
can't just turn power on overnight it's
a four five year cycle to build this
infrastructure and I think that is a
great step towards that now we're even
cutting through the red tape that is
helping solve things 3 4 5 years from
now we have a gap in the next 24 36
months so what can be done I think we
can optimize the grid there is dynamic
line rating there's investment in
superconducting cables which minimizes
the loss there is sort of a there are
all sorts of innovative solutions like
the one we just deployed in in Texas
where You colloccate a data center with
a power plant. You have a way to
effectively augment and draw electrons
from the from from the from the power
plant. You have a way to support the
grid in in in cases of emergency. And I
think innovative solutions like that
will help bridge us into the next phase
when we see this massive development
cycle of most likely natural gas power
plants. And of course at some point
we'll talk about nuclear and nuclear
will be 5 10 years from now. I think
that's that's the long game from a
carbon um carbon efficiency and just a
general efficiency of of power
generation.
>> There's a feeling on Wall Street right
now, they're scared of this. They're
saying maybe it's gotten over its skis.
You travel to Silicon Valley and there's
just absolute abject euphoria. Can you
bridge that gap, the idea that
everyone's trying to poke holes uh over
in New York and uh in San Francisco,
people are just running around saying we
can't invest enough?
>> It's Yeah, it is interesting. I I I I do
spend time on the west coast quite
frequently and and it it's incredibly
energizing uh when I when I'm there and
coming back and you sort of have this uh
wet blanket put on you in terms of all
the skepticism but I I do think that
it's um there is a bridge there. I think
there is now I think a bridge in
understanding of certainly I think the
technology mindset of you know move fast
and break things has to come and somehow
be bridged in terms of building of this
infrastructure which is really a very
different investment cycle very
different risk cycle and a very
different cost of capital cycle and so I
do think that we're helping bridge that
gap and saying this is incredibly
obviously exciting but you have to
obviously capitalize this in an
efficient way and by the way the quantum
of dollars that were is discussing
whether it's 10 or 15 trillion. The
annual spend requires all sorts of
different innovative, creative, and sort
of a holistic solutions to help build
out this infrastructure. I mean,
Oracle's earnings yesterday, which you
touched on earlier this morning, were
just terrific. It's incredible to see
that. So, you have a half a trillion
dollars of backlog and then the news
this morning, that's another 300 billion
of backlog. The numbers are starting to
sort of seem silly. We're moving from
billions to trillions. And you know that
amount of infrastructure will require
many many gigawatts of power, many many
gigawatts of comput. And that's why you
see you know power companies move up on
that news. You see the chip
manufacturers move up on the news. You
see data centers move up on the news
because it just suggests that we're
still in very early innings of that
investment cycle that is taking place.
>> You'll have to forgive any skepticism
around this table. We want you back
soon. Okay. It's good to see you.
>> I love it. Thank you.
>> Thanks for dropping by. We appreciate
it. Vladimar out there of KKR. Let's
keep an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Let's
cross over to Vonyie Quinn for more. Hey
Vonyie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. UBS CEO Sergio
Armotti says the impact of global
tariffs on the US economy and Federal
Reserve monetary policy remains unclear.
Herati told Bloomberg quote in the US we
still believe that growth will be there
but the inflation question and how it
plays out into the central bank's
policies remains open.
UK Prime Minister Kirst has removed
Peter Mandlesson as Britain's ambassador
to the United States after new
revelations about his ties to disgraced
financier Jeffrey Epstein. Mandlesson
referred to Epstein as his quote best
pal in a book of tributes to the
convicted sex trafficker. Bloomberg also
reported that Mandlesson told Epstein
quote I think the world of you after his
arrest.
Used car seller and subprime
lenderricolor filed to liquidate in
bankruptcy as prosecutors are looking
into fraud allegations. The company
didn't give a reason for its collapse in
the filing, butricolor's chapter 7
bankruptcy petition claimed liabilities
between a billion and 10 billion and
assets in the same range. And that's
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Vonyie, thank you. Appreciate it. More
from Vonyie in the next hour in about 30
minutes time. Up next on the program,
counting down to CPI. Here we are over
four years into inflation being above
the Fed's target for a long time.
Businesses kind of getting used to
inflation being high. Consumers might be
getting used to inflation being high.
>> Up next on the program, Joe Davis of
Vanguard live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Equities
all-time highs on the S&P 500. Record
highs on the Nasdaq 100. The run
continues. Equities up this morning by
0.2% on the S&P. Similar move on the
NASDAQ this morning. Out of Savannah
this morning, counting down to CPI.
>> We still have a lot of additional
inflation from tariffs in front of us.
Here we are over four years into
inflation being above the Fed's target
for a long time. Businesses kind of
getting used to inflation being high.
Consumers might be getting used to
inflation being high. It would be
premature to cut 75 basis points for
sure and and and even 50 basis points. I
don't know from my judgment that it
balances the risk between slow growth
and and inflation. So here's the latest
this morning. Investors awaiting today's
CPI print after a colder than expected
read on producer prices. Joe Davis, the
global chief economist at Vanguard,
writing the following. Consumer prices
are likely to absorb tariff pressure
more slowly than initially expected with
inflation peaking in 2026 and largely
subsiding within months, not years. Joe
joins us now for more. Joe, good
morning, sir. Just frame that view a
little bit more. Give us some more
detail if you can. Why is the runway
this time going to be a lot longer
instead of the pass through, the
immediate pass through that some people
imagined?
Well, again, the just the tariff rates
have been delayed. Uh the effects are
not dead. They've just uh been delayed.
They're starting to pass through the
system now. And so, you know, even these
questions of what the Federal Reserve is
going to do, we're in a little bit of a
unusual territory where we're likely
going to have inflation year-over-year
rising, yet you're going to have a Fed
very likely easing uh this month. And
so, that's the crossurrens we're going
to be talking about, and it's it comes
down to labor market. Joe, do you think
the Federal Reserve and the way Chairman
Pal set things up in Jackson Hole, this
is a Federal Reserve that's prepared to
ignore those hollow prints further down
the road?
>> Uh, I think for a time again, we're at
stall speed in the labor market. We do
not have a recession. Um, but the fact
is, uh, you have hirings that have just
flatlined. I think that's a legacy of
the policy uncertainty, particularly
from the tariffs, uh, four or five
months ago. we were actually
headscratching why we weren't seeing
more of a labor market slowdown, but
clearly we're not head scratching
anymore and ne neither is the market. So
I I think the Federal Reserve this is
around risk management. Um at the end of
the day there I think they're going to
lean doubbish and assume that the
tariffs are more of a oneoff price
increase and not something of a longer
term trend. If that's the case and you
think that that's maybe incorrect, Joe,
longer term with respect to inflation is
two is 3% the new 2% when it comes to
the Fed and do market participants have
to kind of think of things that way.
>> I I I wouldn't put it that way. Um
there's always a prospect for a policy
mistake. We're not in that territory
yet. I I think you know what would be
more concerning to me is if we have the
labor market uh you know not just kind
of flatlining from here but not
downturning. In other words, hiring and
firings don't continue uh to worsen. If
that were the case and yet they were
then very aggressive in the easing,
let's say 50 basis points at a meeting,
another 50 basis points, that would then
concern me. I think we would see a
modest vicial reaction in the bond
market. But that is certainly not our
baseline and I think the Fed's going to
have to be attentive to that at the back
half of the year. And again, clarity on
the tariffs and how much is being passed
through will be a factor along with the
labor market. How much do you feel like
the uh upper income uh cohort of
consumers has been powering both the
spending and the inflation and can
continue to even with a recession among
lower income individuals when it comes
to a loss of jobs when it comes to
inflationary impacts etc in a way that
could allow things to not feel great for
inflation to remain persistent uh but
not exactly terrible falling off a
cliff. I guess that that's the dynamic
people keep talking about that warrants
Fed rate cuts but doesn't necessitate a
recession.
>> No, I in fact I think it's a really good
point. Sometimes it's not talked about
enough. You know, you have the upper
income households uh as well as
businesses particularly in the large cap
space really powering uh growth. We have
seen it at times before but it is uh
it's it's actually pretty strong. uh and
given what the equity markets and
financial markets are doing, it's tough
to see that uh stalling uh at any near
term. So I I think again we're going to
have this uh we're going to have these
crossurrens. You look at some measures,
it seems consistent with a recession and
a stall. Yet you look at other measures,
it's hey, why is the Federal Reserve
easing? I think in the and in the
balance, uh the Federal Reserve will
look at the labor market for now, but
they have to keep one eye on inflation
where it may be 6 months from now. We
just had a whole conversation with KKR
about the buildout of data centers
because of AI. How does the Fed grapple
with that?
>> Well, I think they have to start talking
respectfully more about productivity and
what are the odds of the sort of trend
in growth and then with that inflation
if it's productivity uh over the next
three or four years. I mean we've done a
lot of work on this as as you well know
um and it's eye openening uh the
prospects of the sort of Federal Reserve
consensus forecasts for economic growth
for the next 3 or 5 years is very low
actually and it's it's an it's been an
eye openening insight from us from our
data driven framework. So I think the
Federal Reserve has to start talking in
the Jackson Hole type of settings how
much productivity could it be lifting
knowing that this is a scenario that
that may not occur. Uh the Federal
Reserve started really talking about
this in the in the mid 90s late 90s and
I think we're going to start entering
that territory of how strong could it be
and could we have growth without high
inflation or easy inflation pressures
and and that's I think the world that we
may start entering.
>> Thoughtful stuff Joe appreciate it. Joe
Davis there a Vanguard going into the
CPI print later on this morning ahead of
the Federal Reserve about a week away.
Looking ahead to next week a GDP
forecast shaping up as follows for 26.
1.6% 6% is for 26. These are the Fed's
forecast. 2027 1.8%. This speaks to what
Joe's talking about. One handle, that's
the Federal Reserve forecast for the
next two years.
>> This not exactly some sort of runaway
incredible expansion that would
necessitate restrictive rates, right? On
the flip side, he also is projecting
3.1% uh core inflation at the end of
this year. So, not exactly that 2% level
either. The holy grail keeps being uh
placed on the big tech players. the idea
of this incredible rush surge in
productivity
>> and going into next year. It's not even
just that. Steve Shiverone talking about
the fact that there's going to be an
economic boom potentially around things
like the World Cup potentially. We have
a Federal Reserve that's really
underpricing a number of events that are
going into 2026.
>> Stocks are positive this morning. Record
highs yesterday adding some weight to
the move this morning. Up next on the
program, we'll catch up with Evan Brown
of UBS Asset Management, former White
House official Ashley Davis, Thomas of
KBW, and Adichave of Bank of America.
[Music]
We definitely see more lingering
inflation. That reaction function is
definitely more tilted towards the
weakness in the labor market as opposed
to potential upside, you know, risks
from inflation.
>> I don't think the Fed really set us up
for 50.
>> Given the inflation backdrop, it'll be
pretty much premature to start cutting
aggressively at this point.
>> We still have a lot of additional
inflation from tariffs in front of us.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance stats right now
and your scores look like this. Alltime
highs on the S&P and on the NASDAQ
coming into Thursday. Adding some weight
to the move this morning on the S&P 500
up by 0.2. 6 day winning streak on the
Nasdaq. We add to it again this morning.
We're up by 0.3 in the bond market
unchanged right now. The calm before
CPI. The 2-year going nowhere 35478.
As for CPI, inflation data 90 minutes
away together with jobless claims
sandwiched between an ECB decision and a
Lagard news conference.
>> So, how much does CPI matter? And I say
this at a time when a lot of people used
to say that inflation was the most
important gauge for a Federal Reserve
depending on when they potentially could
cut rates. Suddenly, people are saying,
"Ah, even if it comes in at three, 3.1%
year-over-year, which is what's sort of
expected, not a big deal, because
ultimately it is a one-time price shock
that the Fed is going to look through in
favor of really placing emphasis on a
labor market that clearly is not very
strong."
>> So, as you know, next week's a
three-part story. Decision, statement,
forecast, news conference. Decision is
done. A lot of people just think they'll
cut rates. CPI matters for the forecast
and it matters for the guidance you get
in the news conference. Does it open the
door for the chairman to be a little bit
more aggressive about what he can offer
about what they'll do next or are they
on the back foot still worried and I'm
talking about the committee. Can he form
a consensus around the inflation story?
I think that's going to be a little bit
more difficult compared to say a
consensus around the labor market
>> and how much will the market care
because ultimately he is a lame duck Fed
uh president or Fed chair I should say.
Uh and this to me really raises the
question of how much he can give
guidance especially given some of his
flipping and flopping when it comes to
some of the previous discussions of
where the emphasis would be placed and
the unemployment rate say versus just
the headline numbers figure and that's
flipped around as well
>> and what Steve Chveron said is to your
point it's baked in next week I think
potentially there's some that's
considering maybe they would go 50 even
Governor Waller were saying I would need
to see how bad how we how bad it is in
terms of the weakening of the latest
labor market report but see Shiver was
saying the real debate between this year
and next year is it five cuts or six
cuts? Is it four? Maybe do they have to
go bigger? And then to Lisa's point,
we're going to have a whole different
Fed next year and a different mantra. It
is not going to be, you know, the Powell
Fed. It is going to be completely
different.
>> You mentioned Steve of Federated. Put it
together with Mike Wilson over at Morgan
Stanley. There is a theory out there and
this is the bull case that the worst of
the data is actually behind us and that
what we're going to see in the months to
come is an improvement, a pickup, a
reaceleration if you will. That's why
they're so bullish going into 2026
because you layer on top the rate cuts,
the stimulus that people think that you
get from the bill that's just been
passed down in Washington DC and you
look to a better 2026. You know, I can
get behind that for one reason alone is
because every day we have 200, 300, 400
billion dollar announcements about
investments from big tech names and we
haven't even seen the beginning of this.
And you start looking at that tangible
aspect. The Fed chair is now Mark
Zuckerberg. It is not necessarily uh Jay
Powell. And so you start looking at that
and it's what people can get behind
rather than this sort of intangible
what's going on that people are looking
at in the economy. Jane Frasier told
Jumanna, "Not everything is rosy though.
We still don't think we're going to have
a recession. And what clients are
telling us they are acting with
confidence because now they have clarity
out of Washington. Taxes, tariffs, and
deregulation.
>> I like the idea of Mark Zuckerberg
anchoring pay in America. Don't you?
That works for me.
>> Does it?
>> Yeah.
>> Well, I mean
>> based on some of those contracts we've
seen.
>> That's true.
>> Absolutely.
>> So, you're basically looking for a
hundred million pay. That that would be
a problem though for inflation and we
might be looking at inflation somewhat
above 3%.
>> I'm not sure Mike would be on board, but
>> it could raise some other issues. just
he's going to be your personal veteran.
>> Coming up this hour, Evan Brown of UBS
with stocks rallying ahead of CPI data.
Former White House official Ashley Davis
joins us on the political assassination
of Charlie Kirk as that rocks the United
States and Adich of Bank of America
Securities with an update call on Fed
rate cuts. We begin this hour with
stocks hitting another record high as we
await today's inflation read. Evan Brown
of UBS writing the following. The Fed is
highly likely to cut rates in September,
leaning more against downside risk to
employment than upside risk to
inflation. Evan joins us now for more.
Evan, good morning. It's good to see.
>> Good morning. Great to see you.
>> Just walk us through how you think
people should set up going into this
print this morning and into next week
and beyond. Yeah, I mean I think in
general the way the market has been
going is is how you broadly want to be
positioned which is overweight equities
have a you know neutral to slightly
overweight position in in bonds if you
can particularly in the front end just
for insurance right that that uh I mean
we are still seeing a weakening in the
labor market the Fed is like I said
focused on the downside risk to
employment and so you have that that
support there in case things go wrong
and kind of bad news turns into bad news
for the equity market.
>> Well, let's define bad news. So, a lot
of people in markets as you know
interested in change. Is the change
positive or negative? Will the change be
positive from here even if the numbers
aren't great?
>> Yeah, I mean what we're doing is is
looking at the the second derivative to
your point. So, are things getting less
bad? And I think in the labor market,
this is the key question because, you
know, we we've seen some softness, but
you can make the argument that really
the peak softness happened just after
liberation day. Uh June maybe being the
low point for for employment. And now as
there's more confidence, more clarity on
what's happening on the policy side that
you're going to see uh some pickup and
we see that jobless claims remain low.
uh a lot of other indicators we track
including corporate comp corporate uh
commentary have been a lot more upbeat.
So we want to be open-minded on both
scenarios that there's you know this
this deterioration uh in in the data
that we haven't seen yet but might um or
if we kind of inflect higher here.
>> I guess that I'm still thinking about
what Steve Shiverone said. If the bad
data is behind us or at least it's
improving from here, did stocks ever
price in the bad data or could we just
not price that in then not price that in
the future? Prices to the moon.
>> Yeah, I mean stocks are are looking past
uh the the
future.
>> Yeah, exactly. I mean, I think you you
and I talked about this uh several weeks
ago when when uh when I was on this
apparent disconnect between the bond
market and the and the stock market
where the stock market just wants to
look past uh the the weakness in the
data and the the bond market is uh has
been pricing in, you know, a weaker
scenario. And that's only gotten more
extreme, that disconnect with stocks
going higher and with bonds uh you know,
rallying in response to the weaker labor
market. Um, you know, I think that is
the the the right play. I think that is
that makes sense. And one of the reasons
is that it's not just the bond market
pricing in uh a a weaker uh data right
now. Um but they're also pricing in a
structurally more dovish Fed when we get
the new Fed chair appointment when
there's potentially a new uh additional
governor uh who who joins who's who's
more dovish in nature than than what
we're seeing with the PAL Fed such that
if you really get that rebound in
activity and inflation stays tickier for
longer is the Fed necessarily going to
respond with less dovish or more hawkish
policy and I'm not so sure that they
that they will they'll be willing to let
the economy run hotter for longer. For
now, the equity market likes that.
>> Well, right now, I wonder how much the
equity market and the bond market are
actually tied together at all. I'm
thinking still about Oracle and what
came out and this idea of a 34% rally in
one day, adding more than $200 billion
of market cap. That's more than a
Disney, more almost two Disneys uh in
one day to one company on the heels of
what seems to be an investment cycle
that has legs. Is the pain trade still
higher in equities regardless of what
happens in the underlying economy?
>> I do think the pain trade is still
higher because actually interestingly,
you know, we track a broad uh amount of
measures of sentiment and positioning
and even as the market has continued to
go higher. Actually, some measures like
AI have been coming down like there's
there's the positive sentiment is being
outweighed with more people actually
thinking that stocks will go down. And
so, um, you know, there's there's still
this underlying skepticism which we
don't normally see. Normally, we see the
market go up, people get more
optimistic. Um, but we're actually
seeing more concern, more, you know, oh,
conversation of is this a bubble and and
whatnot. Maybe I should be pairing back.
I don't want to jump right in here at
these valuations. That is all the recipe
for a pain trade that goes higher.
>> So, what do people do in terms of the
hedge?
>> Yeah. So I think you know on the on the
growth side uh the natural hedge is is
uh is bonds but critically more towards
the front end which we've we we've seen
the long bond is is kind of broken not
just in the US but globally given fiscal
deficits and and concerns about just
it's hard for politicians to do fiscal
consolidation. Um we're seeing that UK,
Japan um and and France certainly uh and
in the US as well. So, um, but on the
front end of the bond market, I think
that's a key hedge. And then, uh, gold
has just been a really, really important
hedge on this idea that, uh, um, you've
got the fiscal concerns. You've got
concerns about, you know, a Fed that may
be a little bit more politicized and,
uh, this idea that, you know, things run
hotter and the Fed's not quite
responding. At some point that might
start weighing on the equity market,
might start putting more upward pressure
on long-term bond yields as well. And uh
and so gold is playing a critical role
in hedging portfolios.
>> When you say politicized Fed, do you
mean what is going on with Governor Cook
with Steve Meyer? But we know what those
individuals have and in a position. So
doesn't the market have at least that
level of transparency with what is
actually happening with individuals that
sit on the FOMC?
>> Yes. So we we have what we have seen so
far which in itself is not overly
alarming in terms of Fed independence
risk. I mean yeah we know that Lisa Cook
is generally doubbish and Steve Myron is
going to be very doubbish but either way
we're going to get a cut next week and
and and uh and that's the case. I think
the the risk, which I think a number of
steps need to happen to get us there, is
if you get a situation where the Fed
Board of Governors, which has leaned
more Trump appointed, starts uh you know
being influenced in terms of the
certification and renewal of reserve
bank presidents because those have been
the ones um and there are five of those
voting on the 12 person FOMC who have
tended to be leaning more in the in
hawkish or less dovish direction. Um I
don't think that's base case at all. I
think you know we can trust that that
Chris Waller and and Bowman are going to
be um you know f focused on maintaining
Fed independence but that is kind of the
risk where you you get more concerned
about that scenario. Evan Brown of UBS
is good to see you bullish on stocks
bearish on the dollar and likes a little
bit of gold and he's not alone based on
the performance this year.
>> A lot of people are looking at inflation
remaining just above that 2% level. the
Fed being dovish in spite of some of
that inflationary pressure leading to
maybe a depreciation of the dollar, but
the stock to the moon story isn't over.
And that's what we keep hearing and the
wet blanket of New York City and the
skepticism only gives people more
confidence in that. So that's what we
keep hearing this morning.
>> You throw New York City into this.
Where's that coming from?
>> I'm keep thinking about Voldemort Sles
and he came on and he said, you know,
he'd been traveling a lot, right? And in
New York, everyone's like, this is a
bubble. It's terrible.
San Francisco, oh my god, it's going to
change our world and it's sort of circle
and we're living
>> right to be skeptical of these things
now.
>> 100%. I think that that inherent
skepticism is the reason why Evan's
talking about the pain trade being
higher, right? How much are we really
imagining a world in which a robot is
telling us what to do? I know that you
think that I'm not going to listen to
the robot, but I am definitely going to
be very nice to that robot so that when
I am lesser, they they treat me as
>> you'll reprogram it so it says what you
want to hear.
>> Yeah, you are great. What would you
like?
>> You are great. I could take a Let's get
you an update on stories worldwide.
Let's get to your Bloomberg brief. It's
Vonnie Quinn. Hey, Vonnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. A search is
underway for the killer of conservative
activist Charlie Kirk. Kirk, the founder
of Turning Point USA, was shot as he was
speaking to an outdoor crowd at Utah
Valley University. The 31-year-old was a
close ally of President Trump, who
posted about the incident on social
media and ordered American flags to be
lowered to half staff until Sunday.
President Trump's pick for a Federal
Reserve governor is facing his final
hurdle. A full Senate vote on the
confirmation of Steven Myin could come
as soon as Monday. The move sets Myron
up to be seated on the board of
governors before next week's FOMC
meeting potentially.
OPEC plus is boosting output and
continuing to revive production
according to the IEA. This as record oil
supplies are projected for next year and
maybe even looking bigger. The IEA
anticipates a massive global surplus of
roughly 4 million barrels a day in the
first half of 2026 with supply set to
exceed demand substantially. And that is
your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Volley, thank you. More from Vonnie in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, political violence rattles the
US.
>> I am filled with grief and anger at the
heinous assassination of Charlie Kirk.
My administration will find each and
every one of those who contributed to
this atrocity and to other political
violence.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with the former
White House official, Ashley Davis.
[Music]
It is the last big data point before the
Federal Reserve meeting next week. It's
CPI. gets later this morning, 8:30
Eastern time, we get jobless claims,
too. So, another read on the labor
market and then a view from the ECB in
Frankfurt, Germany. That decision drops
at 8:15 and we'll have a news conference
with the ECB president Christine Lard at
8:45 Eastern time. So, that's how we're
set up. That's the schedule for today.
In financial markets, the scores look
like this. Equity futures on the S&P
500, adding to yesterday's record high,
up by 0.2% on the S&P. Similar move on
the NASDAQ 100, higher by 0.26.
And the Savannah this morning, political
violence rattles the US.
>> I'm filled with grief and anger at the
heinous assassination of Charlie Kirk.
My administration will find each and
every one of those who contributed to
this atrocity and to other political
violence. It's a long past time for all
Americans and the media to confront the
fact that violence and murder are the
tragic consequence of demonizing those
with whom you disagreed.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Investigators expanding their search for
the killer of conservative activist
Charlie Kirk with the latest. Here's
Tyler Kendall. Tyler, shocking news
yesterday evening.
>> Absolutely shocking, John. And the
shooter is still at large. We've learned
that the FBI is working closely with
state and local law enforcement on the
investigation after officials said that
around 12:20 p.m. Mountain time, a
single shot was fired from a building
about 200 yards away from where Charlie
Kirk was addressing this crowd. And
officials believe that that shot was
fired from the rooftop of that building.
Now, there was closed circuit
surveillance footage that was released
that shows a figure in dark clothing
believed to be the suspect, but at this
point, we haven't gotten any additional
details, including what potential weapon
was used and whether or not it was
recovered. Utah officials did say that
they took two people into custody
yesterday, but released them after
questioning. We know that there were
more than 3,000 people at this event at
Utah Valley University alongside six
local police officers and Kirk's own
personal security detail that were on
the scene. Now, uh we did hear from the
Utah Governor Spencer Cox who would
describe this as a targeted and
political assassination. Of course, Kirk
was a a prominent uh conservative
activist, a very staunch ally of this
White House of President Trump, Vice
President JD Vance. In fact, the
president was one of the first to
confirm that he had died. And it comes
against this broader backdrop of
heightened focus here in Washington when
it comes to the rise in political
violence. In fact, we just had House
Speaker Mike Johnson last week point to
a 55% spike in threats called in against
members of Congress in just the last
year alone. Uh John, here at the White
House, President Trump has ordered flags
to have staff across the country through
at least the weekend.
>> Heartbreaking. Tyler, thank you. Tal
Kendall in Washington DC to extend this
conversation. Joining us now is the
former White House official Ashley
Davis. Ashley, welcome to the program. A
dark moment for this country. A lot of
people have described it that way in the
last 24 hours. How can law enforcement
meet this dark moment?
>> Well, first of all, it's a sad day in
this country and also the the
anniversary of September 11th, 24 years.
So, there's two different uh sad days
today. But the issue with Charlie that
is a little bit different um for most
white houses is that this is a personal
friend to this administration and this
family. The son both sons of the
president are have been friends with him
for years and so and a lot of the White
House staff as well as staff in the
various agencies and senators and house
members on the hill. So this is this is
pretty personal which is a little bit
different. Also from what I've been told
is this is bringing back tons of
memories almost the same type of setup
for when president's life uh was the
assassination was attempted on his life.
It's bringing back a lot of bad memories
for the White House and White House
staff. So it is a little bit different
of a situation. Um listen, there's been
political violence that has spiked. I
kind of uh not just blame it on this but
think a lot part of it is the fact that
we have the 24-hour news cycle. We have
all this social media and all this
access to information that can be very
very polarizing and the algorithms that
um you know if you believe in one way
the algorithms will uh chase you that
way and and vice versa on the other
side. So, but this has been, listen, my
dad said to me, "This is my son's day."
Like JFK, he'll remember where he was.
Uh just like uh my dad remembers where
he was when JFK was assassinated. But it
has to stop. Um this started with Steve
Scaliz. Uh uh obviously um Brett
Kavanaaugh had an attempt on his life,
Gabby Gfords, the the horrible murders
in Minnesota, Nancy Pelosy's husband. I
mean, this just goes on and on and I
don't know the answer to it. As Governor
Cox said last night, how do we stop it?
We don't know, except for trying to
bring the rhetoric down.
>> Having been in the room though, what
kind of action do you think we could see
almost immediately when it comes to
either homeland security or law
enforcement in this country?
>> I mean, I think that's obviously I think
there's going to be uh heightened alerts
at homeland with homeland security. Uh
but the problem is when you have a
situation like he did yesterday with
3,000 people in open air um areas, how
do you control all of it? Charlie Kirk
does not have the ability to bring a
Secret Service level of security.
Listen, on your show plenty of times
after the president's assassination, I
was pretty tough on what happened and
the Secret Service not um doing their
job. But but Charlie Cook and other
politicians do not have that level of
security at their access. So um it's
going to be Charlie had I think from
what I understand security of his own.
The local people have been um work were
working with his security in regards to
trying to make sure that something like
this doesn't happen. But I just don't
know how you secure places like this
unless the death threats to you are so
significant that you just try to do um
things inside which is just a sad day
for our country if that's what we have
to do.
>> It's horrific and understanding
Washington DC. Could this be a moment
for change for seismic shift in rhetoric
and how politicians and as citizens
speak to each other?
>> Listen, I hope so. I thought so as well
after the president's assassination
attempt. I think that lasted maybe a
week that people stopped. Um you saw
what happened potentially on the House
floor yesterday with Republicans and
Democrats fighting even um over a m
moment of silence that was requested for
Charlie on the House floor. So hopefully
people reflect on it today. I actually
thought that Speaker Johnson gave a good
answer to what happened on the House
floor yesterday was just everyone was in
raw emotion. And hopefully everyone
takes a step back today and comes back
with better behavior on both sides of
the aisle.
>> Other issues right now that Washington
is obviously dealing with is of course
what is going on geopolitically and I'm
focused on what is happening in terms of
Bellarus and Russia and Poland saying
that they're going to be concerned with
what's going on with these Russian
drones. Do you have insight on that and
how this administration potentially
could respond to what we saw this week?
There's two things I actually have spent
a lot of uh time in that area of the
world, especially helping with the
opposition candidates against Luca
Shanka um in Barus and and I think that
what starts tomorrow is actually
something that's very important which is
the there's going to be military
training in Barus with Russia and uh in
Lucenko's military. So that obviously is
right on the board right up against
Poland. So there's going to be even
heighten alert. But it was interesting
today I was looking at how NATO has been
um reacting and the fact that they are
implementing article four when instead
of article five in regards to these
drones and article 5 means that it would
be more potential military response
right now. Uh NATO is reviewing so to
speak what happened with the drones. Um
I think it lets down a lot of that
tension but um it's something
significant and you saw the president's
response yes President Trump's response
yesterday. You have the president
getting a ton of pressure from Senate
Republicans and Democrats um on the Hill
to pass 500% tariffs on Russia. So, I
think that the time is running out in
regards to Congress kind of waiting and
giving the president the ability to
negotiate this, but we'll see.
>> Ashley, thanks for making time for us
this morning. Appreciate your input.
Ashley Davis there, the former White
House official on the latest in
Washington DC and beyond. The Polish
really rattled by the past few days.
>> Absolutely they are rattled and they're
negotiating with NATO try to figure out
what the response is to be to her point.
Article four, not just yet, Article 5,
but still a pretty strong moment.
>> If you are just joining us, welcome to
the program. Stocks positive this
morning by 0.2%. Up next, we'll catch up
with Tom Micho of KPW on the outlook for
financials. Plus, Yahihira has your
morning movers and a new name on Wall
Street losing steam.
[Music]
CPI 60 minutes away. The open and bow 2
hours away. Equity futures on the S&P
500 positive here by 0.2%. 3 days of
gains on the S&P. 6 days of gains on the
Nasdaq 100. Record highs here on the S&P
and on the Nasdaq 100, too. In the bond
market, 2-year 10ear and 30-year bond
yields still very close to the lows for
the year. 35457 on twos, down about 40
basis points since early August, just
before we got that very weak payrolls
report for the month of July. That was
followed by another week payrolls report
and it set us up for rate cuts for
September and beyond for 25 and 1 to 26
based on the views of many of you on the
10-year bond yield this morning just
about unchanged just north of 4%. Let's
call it 4.05 so far this morning. That's
the price action in stocks and bonds.
Let's get you some morning movers as we
count you down to the open and bow.
Here's Yhira. Hey yhra.
>> Hi John. It's a pretty quiet day heading
into that CPI print, but worth noting,
Oracle again, shares are higher nearly
2% here in the pre-market after that 36%
surge yesterday, marking its best day
since 1992. It was also a big day for
co-founder Larry Ellison with Oracle's
major rally giving him the biggest
one-day wealth jump ever recorded making
Ellison briefly the world's richest man
yesterday for a few hours topping Elon
Musk. Next up, we have Clara. Shares are
lower 2%, but the buy now pay later firm
had a strong debut yesterday, surging
15% after raising $1.37 billion. And
even though we are seeing the IPO market
warm up, is worth noting it is a
20-year-old company, underscoring this
idea how companies are staying private
for longer. And we end on Open Door
Technologies. This the um online real
estate firm is surging here in the
pre-market after some big moves at the
top. It has a new CEO who was formerly
at Shopify and its co-founder is back as
chairman. Investors are clearly liking
the shakeup after some drama last month
when uh CEO Carrie Wheeler was forced to
resign after some pressure from
investors. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara in
the next hour. On our radar this
morning, a manhunt is underway after the
assassination of conservative activist
Charlie Kirk. President Trump calling
his latest act of political violence a
dark moment for America. Elsewhere, a
full Senate vote on the confirmation of
President Trump's Fed pick could come as
soon as Monday. The move setting up
Steven Myron to be on the board of
governors before next week's FOMC
meeting.
>> How important is his voice? And I think
this is actually a key question. if he
is on the board of governors next week,
given the fact that his term expires or
would expire should he be confirmed
early next year, is he representative of
what the next Fed leadership looks like
or is he a placeholder to rattle
feathers on the board of governors and
ultimately I think people are going to
be asking this question next week.
>> Well, speaking of leadership, let's talk
about the future leader of the Federal
Reserve. This from the Wall Street
Journal this morning. The Fed share race
gets a dark horse. In any other times,
this wouldn't be a dark horse. This
would be the front runner. Federal
Reserve Governor Christopher Waller
warned publicly that private sector
hiring was near store speed and flashing
red back in July. And a colleague turned
round to him and joked, "Come on, Chris,
you're a better economist than that."
And Chris has been proved right.
>> And a lot of people are coming to the
around that around the idea that he is a
good economist. So he would have the
market credibility behind him as well.
So, how much are uh some of the
administration officials who are looking
for the next veteran, I'm thinking of uh
Scott Bessen in particular, going to be
looking for someone with that
credibility who also are skewed to
cutting rates further.
>> Well, we know that the Treasury
Secretary is in the middle of having
these interviews, then he's going to
give the top three to the president. The
president already says, "Yeah, the top
three kind of sound like what you all
have been talking about." And Governor
Waller is one of them and also the
Kevin. When it comes to Governor Waller,
he has been absolutely vindicated. What
Jay Powell said at the last FOMC meeting
versus what he said four weeks later at
Jackson Hole where Lisa was was
completely different and it was like
Chris Waller actually wrote that speech
for him.
>> How do you think the Kevins feel about
being called the Kevin?
>> You know, it's like the Kevin plus
Chris.
>> Who gets the rose?
>> Yeah.
>> You know, is this going to be or
>> I imagine Walsh is pretty offended by
that. You think so?
>> Yeah. I don't think that guy wants to be
a Kevin. You think that Kevin Hassid is
like he think you think that he's okay
with it?
>> Should be happy he's just in the
running. No.
>> Wow.
>> Wouldn't you be thrilled by that?
>> You know, I don't know. I guess that you
always want to be an individual and
recognized for who you are as a human
being. Exactly.
>> And so Kevin,
>> let's do better.
>> We're going to do has it.
>> There you go.
>> Plus Waller.
>> Kevin is easier, isn't it? Okay. Here's
the latest on New York. New York
Governor Kathy Hokll stopping short of
an endorsement for New York City mayoral
candidate Zora Mandani. Hok saying she
would work with the democratic
socialists despite their philosophical
differences.
>> I don't want to raise income taxes on
high netw worth people. I am a staunch
capitalist. Uh and so I need to know
that that people can have a certain
philosophy but you got to govern in
reality. And the reality is that this is
the financial center of the world.
>> I don't want to raise income taxes on
high netw worth people. the big headline
in that interview.
>> Yeah. How much is she gonna push back
and sty any goals? Should Zora Madani
win the mayoral race? And it seems like
she's lining up to do so given the fact
that the state ultimately has the power
over the purse in terms of taxes and how
much you can raise them. A real question
here of how you parse the fact that the
issues that are being raised are
relevant and important. It's the methods
of how you go about it that really are
the controversial ones and that seemed
to be the needle she was trying to
thread. and she hasn't endorsed anyone
just yet, but we've heard from this be
for heard this from her before in the
past. She said, "I can't lose any more
people to Palm Beach talking about the
fact that taxes cannot continue to go up
to New York." And you think you can
attract high netw worth individuals and
talent because guess what? At some
point, they are just going to leave.
>> It's the financial capital of the world.
You know, you got to respect that. Let's
stay on the financials. Cityroup CEO
Jane Fraser telling Bloomberg she sees a
pickup in activity with no US recession
on the horizon.
>> I still see very strong pipelines. I see
high level of engagement from clients. I
see a sense of urgency as well active in
the capital market arena in financing
active in much more active in investing
less sitting on the sidelines and M&A
has been very very active indeed.
>> Let's turn to Tom Micho of KPW a steifle
company for more. Tom, welcome to the
program. Good morning.
>> Good morning. Good morning.
>> Before we talk about this, let's just
talk about what day it is. You were
headquartered in the World Trade Center,
lost 67 people that day. I want to spend
a few moments with you just to think
about what that day still means to you
today and how we ensure that this
generation that's now coming onto Wall
Street who weren't alive that day,
hadn't been born, how we make sure they
don't forget either.
>> Correct. Thank you. Um, yes, we we think
it's very important to not forget. We
said that day we were never going to
forget. And um, there have been a lot of
big pieces to what never forget means
because never forget means different
things to different people. Um, one of
the things that we're doing is making
sure that 9/11 isn't defined just by the
people who flew airplanes into our
building. Instead, I'm working with a
group 911day.org, or which is a group
that KBW helped found um to think about
the resilience and the goodwill and the
rebuild and honor the victims of that
attack with that spirit. So we worked uh
with Congress and in 2009 we got
Congress to pass a law making 9/11 a
national day of service. And we think
today there are going to be 33 million
Americans who participate in the day of
service to remember the victims of 911
and to remember the resilience and to
remember the goodwill that it took to
rebuild. Um there is one service project
in particular that we support. We're
going to be in 24 cities in America
today. We're going to pack close to 9
million meals for those who are food
insecure. We have over 800 corporate
customers. It's our corporate partners
in this. Next year, our aim is to try to
double that for the 25th recognition and
anniversary of 9/11. Um to continue to
talk about what it took for America to
rebuild uh after the attack. So you
don't end up with 911 being two
paragraphs in a history book. We're not
going to let that happen.
>> You're contributing to a lasting legacy
and making sure it's a positive one. So
I think we're all right behind you, sir.
And thank you for being with us today to
talk about it. We need to talk about the
broader business world, too. need to
talk about what's happening with banking
activity. Things are bouncing back and
you can see that and hear it in the
words of Jane Fraser of City. Are you
seeing that too?
>> So, I've been a guest on your show many
times over the last couple of years. The
factors that were headwinds are now
tailwinds. Um, I'm about as optimistic
on the fundamentals of the banking
sector and financial services in general
as I've been in several years. There's
revenue growth, there's earnings per
share growth. Um, we're looking for 10%
this year and next. the economy's okay
enough. Um, so that's all very bullish.
And then there's the other stuff which
is rather than regulatory uh attention
slowing down financial services, it's
now resetting to where it typically is,
which is one that's more supportive of
growth. So uh the consolidation's going
to restart in the industry. Um, and the
other thing is I heard you talking
earlier about how the market's at an
all-time high. Six straight days I think
in the NASDAQ of records. The reality is
you don't have the downside risk and the
valuation for the financials. While the
stocks have done well, they're still
well far away from their historic norms.
There still is a lot of valuation upside
in the financials. And my experience is
is that when earnings estimates are
going up, profitability is improving,
the stocks tend to do well.
>> There's a lot to unpack there. I want to
just hone in on the idea of the mergers
and acquisitions. We have seen some of
those announced in recent days, the PNC
one coming just a couple days ago. Where
are we in this process? How much more of
that do you see in the next 6 months?
>> So my opinion is we are approaching the
endgame. There are 140 banks in America
north of 10 billion in assets. 96% of
the banks in America are below 10
billion are community banks. 96% of any
number is almost all of it. There are
very few banks above 10 billion and I
think the bigger banks are beginning to
think about what the endgame's going to
look like and they're being very
strategic in thinking about these
acquisitions. Um, in the previous
administration, it had an anti-M&A bias
and wouldn't even give an answer to bank
merger applications unless they were
forced to. Um, now the administration's
gone back to what historically had been
the case and they will give you an
answer to a merger application. That's
all the industry needed to restart the
consolidation wave and we're it's
underway right now.
>> So what does it look like in the end? Is
it just a couple of sort of the megas
and then the sort of media megas and
then everyone else?
>> So to take the funnel real quickly
remember the non-banks we were talking
you were talking about CLA earlier.
Financial banks used to be half of the
S&P 500 waiting in financials. Now
they're a quarter of it. it talk we
think Aries is going to get added to the
S&P 500 next that's a that's a very
big$80 billion market cap company so fin
banks are a smaller piece of the
financial services industry they're
competing with CLA they need to have the
scale and the capacity to do that
otherwise the industry will evolve with
four really big banks and then a lot of
other ones that are much smaller the
best thing to do for the economy in our
opinion is to allow these regional
champions to get the scale to compete
with the big four banks and then compete
with non-banks and I think our economy
and main street America will be better
served if that happens.
>> You sound incredibly optimistic about
bank stocks right now. How hinged is
that to a reaceleration in the
underlying economy versus a secular
shift?
>> Let me talk to you about the one thing
that can stop it. The one thing that can
stop it is credit quality. So this past
week was the Barclays conference in New
York. It was the last big channel check
we get for the quarter. Everybody's
saying the same thing. Credit quality
continues to remain pristine. It it the
industry is over earning on credit at
the moment. It shouldn't always be this
way. So there will be a moment where
credit costs go up. That shouldn't be
the surprise. The surprise is for how
long it's been essentially zero. So as
long as as we have a solid enough
economy, then I think the bull story is
very much intact. Usually if we get a
credit cycle, investors tend to sell
bank stocks first and ask questions
later. So the fact of the matter is we
don't see a credit cycle on the horizon
in the banking sector. So our view is
that that is what's necessary and 1.9%
GDP growth is good enough to keep the
fundamental story in play. And actually
the banks are talking about accelerating
loan growth which is which is a positive
part of the story.
>> Can you just remind everyone, it's my
favorite stat of yours. just remind us
all of the top 10 mortgage providers in
this country now and how many banks are
in the top 10 compared to say a decade
plus ago.
>> So pre- global financial crisis eight of
the top 10 mortgage originators
uh were banks today three of the top 10
are banks. Now the the question along
that line John is did banks forget how
to make mortgages? They were all
primarily founded to make mortgages and
that is regulation because the response
to every crisis is regulate the banks
which tied their hands which is why the
non-banks have so much market share. The
right thing to do is to take the foot
off the banks, let them compete with the
non-banks. And I think you can do it
without putting too much risk in the
system because the risk has just gone
elsewhere and it's gone outside the
supervisory umbrella and and when we get
the next cycle, we're going to find out
if we were better off.
>> Thomas show got to leave it there. Good
to see you, sir. Thank you, Jonathan.
Thank you for being here. We appreciate
it. Thomas show there of KPW. Let's get
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. It's
Vonyie Quinn. Hey, Vonnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. Boeing has reached
a tentative agreement with striking
hourly workers at a St. Louis area
factories. The company says the 5-year
contract offers expanded wages by an
average of about 45% and provides a 24%
average guaranteed wage increase.
Workers will also receive a $4,000
ratification bonus. Union
representatives are set to vote on the
contract Friday.
Mexico is planning to impose as much as
a 50% tariff on cars and other Chinese
products, aligning the country more
closely with US protectionism. The move
comes as President Claudia Shinbound
prepares for talks over North America's
free trade deal.
And Chipotle is venturing into Asia. The
vast casual chain has plans to open
locations in South Korea and Singapore
next year. Chipotle's CEO says he
expects international markets to become
the next layer of growth beyond North
America. And that's your Bloomberg
brief. John, hey Vonyie, appreciate it.
Up next on the program, don't fear the
pause, fear the cuts. Don't fear the
pause, fear the cuts. They have to do a
preemptive insurance rate cut. What they
don't know is the trajectory of what the
impact of labor market softness is going
to be on on consumption. That
conversation up next with Jab of Bank of
America Securities from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
The economic data is about 42 minutes
away. Stocks going into it doing okay.
Up by 0.2% on the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ
up by a third of 1% under Savannah this
morning. Don't fear the pause, fear the
cuts. Don't fear the pause. Uh fear the
cuts. When the Fed starts to cut rates,
a lot depends on why they are cutting
rates. They have to do a preemptive
insurance rate cut. What they don't know
is the trajectory of what the impact of
labor market softness is going to be on
on consumption. And I think that's where
that's the linkage that they're trying
to, you know, give the market some sense
of relief and comfort. So here's the
latest this morning. Investors preparing
for the last major read on inflation
before the Fed's rate decision next
week. Adich of Bank of America
Securities saying there is now clearer
evidence of deterioration in labor
demand. And we are changing our Fed call
to show two 25 basis point cuts this
year in both September and December.
Adicha joins us now for more. Adicha,
good morning.
>> Good morning. Thanks for having me on.
Thank you for being here. This is a
change to a long-standing call. You were
looking for no cuts in 2025. For a long
time, you said there'd been a step down
in payrolls growth, but measures of
slack had stayed pretty stable. So,
let's start here. What's changed?
>> So, what's changed is both the reaction
function expressed by Chair Powell,
which was more doubbish than we were
expecting, and some signs of weaker
labor data. So, payrolls have weaker
more than we were expected. The
unemployment rates moved up, although
that was sort of expected. You can look
at the ratio of vacancies to unemployed
workers that stick down a bit. So you
take all of that in the context of the
way Chair Powell is talking about the
tradeoff between concerns about higher
inflation and concerns about a weakening
labor market and it does look like the
Fed will cut. We still think they'll
have to be quite cautious in cutting. So
we only have two cuts in this cycle
under Chair Powell, 25 in September and
25 in December.
>> The labor market and his approach to it
seems to have changed as well. In the
news conference a number of months ago,
he appeared to anchor his view on the
labor market around the unemployment
rate and now that's shifted to payroll
growth. Does that stack up for you?
What's behind that? It's hard to say
what's behind his thinking, but I would
say we are probably more concerned about
labor supply or we think probably a
larger share of the shock that that
we're seeing in the labor market is a
supply story than the de than a demand
story then perhaps the Fed is conceding.
Do you think that the revisions though
changed the view a little bit? Just the
idea that there was that much less
momentum when we saw a negative payrolls
print in June for the first time since
December of 2020.
>> The revisions are interesting. That's
one way to think about it. The other way
to think about it is that we grew 2.7%
in terms of private domestic demand in
that period where the revisions occurred
and there was only 70,000 in job growth
per month in that period. So what does
that tell you about productivity? Also,
what does that tell you about the break
even rate? We might have already been in
a world where break even job growth was
a lot lower and productivity is really
surging.
>> This is a fascinating point and it's the
reason why a lot of people are saying
maybe the weakness we is behind us.
Maybe the weak data already occurred and
we're heading to some sort of
reaceleration.
Do you think if the Fed cuts into that
it becomes a liability from an inflation
perspective or do you think that this is
a new paradigm with a productivity
overlay that we really are not counting
enough?
>> We've been concerned about inflation for
a while. Not necessarily the impact of
changes to trade policy but just
underlying inflation. We think that's
been stuck around 2.5%
for a long time now. And the Fed is not
willing to concede this. The Fed keeps
saying that kind of X of the tariff
impact. We're definitely heading back
towards 2%. We've made a lot of progress
on the target. I just don't see it to be
honest. And I think like you said
cutting into a potential reaceleration
in the economy which we are seeing in
our consumer spending data as well, the
BAC card data, spending by our credit
and debit card consumers, everything
aggregated and anonymized. Um we're
seeing a pickup. We're seeing a
reaceleration and if you cut into that
then I think that creates some upside
risk to inflation.
>> Is that why we wouldn't see say 50 basis
points next week even though some people
are calling for it after the weakening
labor market report?
>> It's quite unusual for the Fed to be
cutting with 3% inflation even 25 never
mind 50
>> right all at once. The inflation report
that we're about to get the chairman
said a one-off but not all at once. I
think that's really interesting from
this Fed chair because not only is he
telling us he's willing to cut rates at
3%. He's willing to cut rates again,
even if inflation prints come in hotter
over the next several months. I want to
understand what that would do to your
outlook for inflation in 26 if this
Federal Reserve continues to dismiss hot
prints and keeps cutting.
>> So, we're thinking of the inflation
trajectory as more of a plateau rather
than a mountain. So to the extent that
retailers do pass costs through and
there's a big open question around that
but to the extent that they do that we
think they'll be quite strategic quite
slow in doing that. So instead of
getting this big spike and then coming
back down to target we think you
basically go up into the low 3s and
we're almost there already and you stay
there for maybe a year. The question is
what is the path back down like? We have
the core PC ending next year at around
2.6%.
That would be with a lot of the tariff
effects already rolling off. Is that
acceptable for the Fed? And if it is
acceptable for the Fed, if the Fed is
implicitly raising its inflation target,
there's nothing wrong with that with
with 2 and 1 half 3% inflation from a
macro perspective, but it does mean a
higher neutral rate because your neutral
policy rate is a function of your
inflation target. So then policy becomes
even more accommodative of everything
else being equal. So the numbers would
actually back up what you're saying
because we haven't had a 2% inflation
rate going back more than four years. So
it raises a question why the market
doesn't seem particularly alarmed about
this and why you are seeing break even
rates continuing to be pretty quiet and
still around that 2% level.
>> So here's a fun fact for you. Since the
first quarter of 2021, we have never had
core PC inflation on a quarterly
annualized basis sub 2% for even one
quarter. We've only been below 2 and
a.5% a couple times and that was all
used cars. So we're basically stuck
above 2 and a half%. I I just don't see
how you can look at it any other way.
>> Adicha, appreciate your take. Thank you,
sir. Adijah Baba there of Bank of
America going into the CPI report in
about 35 minutes time raising some big
questions about what we might see from
the Federal Reserve in September and
beyond. And the beyond is the more
interesting piece of this. 25 basis
points that or 50, I've got no idea. The
guidance from there is the interesting
piece of it all. Do they still have a 2%
target if it's uh if the inflation rate
is 2 and a half% or even 3% for 10
years? I guess that if you look out and
you say five years from now if it still
is above 2% and that's okay if the labor
market's intact. Well then what are we
talking about in terms of a target?
>> Muhammad Alerin has been talking about
this for months that basically they just
need to come clean that they're actually
not targeting 2% anymore. They're
basically just accepting it's going to
be a 2 to 3% inflation rate.
>> Months. Years. He's been talking about
it for years. He said, "If you were
going to set an inflation target with
the Fed right now, it wouldn't be two,
it' be three." And basically, they've
been playing the game as if it was a 3%
target.
>> Yeah. And so, we'll see the reaction to
today's CPI.
>> Coming up on the program, we'll catch up
with Greg Battle of BMP, Puja Camra of
TD Securities, Tiffany Wilding of PIMCO,
and David Kelly.
We definitely see more lingering
inflation.
>> That reaction function is definitely
more tilted towards the weakness in the
labor market as opposed to potential
upside, you know, risks from inflation.
>> I don't think the Fed really set us up
for 50.
>> Given the inflation backdrop, it'll be
pretty much premature to start cutting
aggressively at this point.
>> We still have a lot of additional
inflation from tariffs in front of us.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> The main event 30 minutes away. Going
into it, your scores look like this.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. Equity
futures on the S&P 500. Positive on the
S&P this morning by a few ten of 1%.
Likewise on the NASDAQ 100. In the bond
market, really well behaved over the
last few weeks through September and
through August too. Bond yields back
down to about 355 up by a single basis
point this morning on 10 just north of
4% at 4.05. The data drops in about 29
minutes now. CPI just around a corner
together with US jobless claims.
>> Yeah. Which is going to take precedence
at a time where very much the labor
market has taken all of the oxygen out
of the air. The CPI print people are
going to be talking about the headline
number. We're going to be looking under
the hood. It matters where any inflation
came from. Is it that people are taking
airplanes lots of places? Are they
paying up for their hotel rooms when
they go on vacation? Or is it coming
from the basic staples that could
potentially be tied to tariffs or other
supply disruptions? Uh the good side of
things that's going to matter to give a
sense of whether this is discretionary
or whether this is coming from another
location.
>> This market has moved on so quickly from
inflation prints in America. If you told
me back in April, you're going to get
inflation in September and nobody's
going to care. They're all going to
focus on the labor market and the Fed's
going to cut rates even if it comes in
hot. I've been like, what are you
talking about? April 2nd just happened.
>> It seems like team transitory got back
together subtly and then quickly and
then all at once and now it's this idea
that inflation is no longer a concern. I
personally am concerned just about
vacation planning as well as eating out
that has become incredibly expensive.
These are the aspects though of life
that people do care about. the inflation
that does uh really affect the way
people think about their spending power,
about their income. And I think it does
matter to understand whether the
ciphlation light was an overstatement or
whether that still is a dynamic very
much at play.
>> The chairman Powell in Jackson Hall,
Wyoming talking about a one-off
inflation shock, but not all at once. So
maybe in the next several months, we get
a few more inflation reports that come
in a little sticky, a little hot. He's
setting up this Federal Reserve to
basically look through it.
>> Exactly. you can just shrug it off and
ignore the CPI prints if they're hot
because we already know that it does
seem like they are anchoring at least at
this moment towards the weakness in the
labor market. We've been talking about
how Governor Waller has been ahead of
the curve when it comes to this Federal
Reserve and basically the one that
pretty much seems like he wrote Jay
Powell's speech at Jackson Hall, but
it's also a moment of vindication
potentially for this White House
yesterday after the PPI. That was a
downsized surprise and many saying
you're not seeing the excessive pressure
on prices from tariffs that some were
expecting. This White House is feeling
vindicated and asking them to go bigger
with a jumbo rate cut.
>> Two data points 27 minutes away.
Inflation data and jobless claims coming
up this hour. Greg Battle of BMP Parabar
as stocks trade at all-time highs. We'll
speak to Puja of TD Securities with an
ECP rate decision just around the corner
and Tiffany Welding of Pimco as we break
down the latest inflation reading. We
begin this hour with stocks edging
higher as traders await a key CPI report
before the Fed meeting begins. Greg
Battle of BMP Parabar writing, "Risk of
a shallow correction post the FOMC
decision could set up a Q3 earning
season rally." Greg joins us now for
more. Greg, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> This is what a lot of people are
thinking about is that things start to
pick up from here. We heard it from
Steve Chevron of Federated. We've heard
it from Mike Wilson of Morgan Stanley
that going into year end you could have
some kind of economic acceleration into
26. Are you that bullish?
>> Yeah, I don't necessarily disagree with
that. One of the things we have to think
about with things like the CPI is that
equities are a nominal asset. So when we
think about earnings growth, it is in
nominal terms. So if you have the Fed
willing to run the economy a little bit
hotter, that can be bullish for
earnings.
>> How hot are they going to run things
next year? Are they going to stop at
three when they talk about taking rates
down to neutral? Do you think they stop
at three at the Federal Reserve?
>> It very much remains to be seen. Um, but
I think the market's going to trade off
the narrative that we have a dovish Fed
who is willing to run it hot into the
back end of this year and then those are
going to be questions for next year. I
think
>> you mentioned shallow recession. Did
that happen?
>> So what we mentioned was the idea of a
shallow pullback specifically. So what
we're talking about here is when we look
at this year, it reminds me a lot of
2019. 2019 was a really bullish year for
equities and a big part of that was the
Fed started a cutting cycle in July
2019. But when you actually look at the
price action, it was very well priced
going into the event and the softest
patch that we had that year was
immediately after the Fed started
cutting rates. So it was a kind of buy
the rumor, sell the fact type move. So
we think there's a risk here that you
know this September rate cut is very
well priced now. Fed can deliver that
and the market can take a breather
>> which is the idea of don't fear the
pause, fear the cut because this has
already been priced in. It raises a
question of which stocks have actually
gotten the greatest benefit from the
idea of an easing Fed. Do you believe
that the cyclicals can really be the
leaders going forward if there is a rate
cutting cycle in the face of a labor
market that definitely has slowed down
regardless of what you think in terms of
the long-term implications?
>> Yeah, that's our view that there can be
this rotation. But I do think we have to
be a little bit cognizant about which
cyclicals we're looking at because you
can look at things like the smaller
midcaps that are generally seen as rate
cutting beneficiaries cyclical part of
the market. But they've massively
outperformed things like the industrials
over the last uh 6 weeks or so. So we
think where there could be a catch-up
trade is some of the industrial
cyclicals. Some of these potential uh
beneficiaries from some of the capex
measures in the one big beautiful bill.
Um it's worth looking at uh the ISM
readings as well that we've seen this
month. The new orders specifically
picking up there. So if you have a Fed
who's willing to run things a little bit
hotter and you have new orders pick up,
we think the kind of industrial cyclical
old economy parts of the market that do
trade at less inflated PE are
potentially interesting.
>> If you're interested in that sector
though, does it worry you that
manufacturing jobs have actually been
coming in soft?
>> Yeah, I think it is a cause for concern
and I think the data is very hard to
read at the moment. There have been a
lot of revisions depending which bits of
data you look at, they are pulling in
different directions. So that's why I
think it's a very difficult uh kind of
uh market for the data to try and
navigate. But I think that it looks
increasingly like the the Fed is willing
to cut or do a series of cuts which I
think for us puts the risk reward on the
idea that this could be a soft patch
that reacelerates into next year. So
this could be a good time to
>> I noticed you put a probability on a 25
or 50. I just want to go there because
the administration is pushing for this
50 basis point. You only say that's 10%
chance. What kind of CPI print could we
see today? Like how soft could it be
today that maybe actually you would
change your probability? Yeah. So that
probability is more what the market is
implying. So if you look at what is
implied for uh the September cut, it
looks exactly uh like what we saw in
2019 going into that cut. So the market
is basically pricing this base case that
you get 25 pips and it's more of a tail
that you could get 50. Um so our view is
that we'll get 25. So that's why I think
there's maybe a little bit of room for
uh disappointment. It's not a
particularly uh you know very bearish
call. It's just more this idea that
we've really kind of bought the rumor,
sell the fact, and we can just drift
lower into what's a seasonally soft
patch.
>> That's one way of looking at it. What if
we get a really soft print at 8:30
Eastern time based on the odds you just
gave? Shouldn't that set us up for a
bigger move on a weaker inflation print
than a larger one?
>> Yeah. So, I think one of the things that
we've been talking about um from a
volatility perspective is that even if
we think uh probabilistically we're more
likely to get a shallow correction, the
tail risk for the market is actually
fatter. that we think on the upside. So
when we think about the options market,
the part of the options surface that we
think is most underpriced is the right
tail. You if we have a very big and very
volatile move, I think that's more
likely to be on the upside than the
downside. We mentioned things like
Russell that have outperformed a lot,
the smaller midcaps, there's still quite
a big short interest in the futures
there. So if you were to get a very soft
print today and the market read that as
driving uh 50 basis points cuts, that's
where the kind of risk of a more
volatile.
>> So just follow up on that, the right
tail risk. I'm surprised by that given
the experience of April, May, and
beyond. Haven't we been conditioned that
upside risk is a massive factor in 2025?
>> Yeah, but part part of that is just how
the market trades. You do tend to have
rallies, even quite large rallies happen
in a less volatile manner. So, you can
see the market trending, trending up,
say 25 pips a day, and you can get quite
a big move over one month, two months,
three months, but it comes across a less
volatile backdrop. when you see the
market sell off, you know, it tends to
be, you know, more volatile up down up
up two, down two, up two, down two. So,
the way the the the option surface is
looking at the moment, the downside is
very elevated relative to the upside.
So, I think if you're interested in
playing that idea that things become
more dislocated on the down on the
upside and the Fed runs things too hot,
the upside optionality is the way to
play it off.
>> Then give Greg a call. Greg, it's good
to see you.
>> Thank you.
>> As always, there's the pitch. Greg
Battle there of BMP Parab. Evan Brown
agreed with him that the idea of the
pain trade being to the upside more than
to the downside and we keep hearing this
Amy with Silverman also talking about
that with the idea that people are
persistently pessimistic on Wall Street.
It feel seems like I guess since 2008
everyone's waiting for the next big
short and it never happens and so people
are sitting here waiting and thinking
maybe this is it and yet here we are
with
>> based on the price action of the last
few months I would have thought the FOMO
was was real. No missed out on that kind
of rally. Do you want to miss out on the
upside if everyone's going around like
Greg Battle talking about upside risk?
>> Sure, you can make that argument. At the
same time, if everybody is super
pessimistic and prepared to miss that
rally, you start to wonder exactly how
things are priced. It just highlights
how difficult it's been to price in both
the resilience and creativity of
corporate executives uh in order to deal
with all of the potential incoming data,
the resilience of consumers, and just
how powerful the AI story has been in
the investment cycle.
>> Super powerful based on a move from
Oracle in yesterday's session. And
equities up again this morning by 0.2%
with an update on stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief is Vonyie Quinn.
Hey Vonyie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. A search is
underway for the killer of conservative
activist Charlie Kirk. Kirk, the founder
of Turning Point USA, was shot as he was
speaking to an outdoor crowd at Utah
Valley University. The 31-year-old was a
close ally of President Donald Trump who
posted about the incident on social
media and ordered American flags to be
lowered to half staff until Sunday.
UK Prime Minister Kirst has removed
Peter Mandlesson as Britain's ambassador
to the United States after new
revelations about Mandlesson's ties to
disgraced financier Jeffrey Epstein.
Mandlesson referred to Epstein as his
quote best pal in a book of tributes to
the convicted sex trafficker. Bloomberg
also reported that Mandlesson told
Epstein, quote, I think the world of
you. After Epstein's arrest,
former Vice President Kla Harris says it
was quote reckless to let President
Biden and his wife, First Lady Jill
Biden, decide whether he should have
sought re-election at age 80. In her
forthcoming memoir, 107 Days, Harris
says the stakes were too high and the
decision shouldn't have been left to an
individual's ego. Harris's book is set
to be released on September 23rd.
And that's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Vonnie, we appreciate it. Thank you. Up
next on the program, Huja Kamra of TD
Securities with an ECP rate decision
coming up next from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[Music]
We're likely going to have inflation
year-over-year rising, yet you're going
to have a Fed very likely easing uh this
month. And so, that's the crossurrens
we're going to be talking about. And it
comes down to the labor market. We're at
stall speed in the labor market. We do
not have a recession. Um but the fact is
uh you have hirings that have just
flatlined.
>> The range of views on this economy so so
wide. That was Joe Davis the global
chief economist at Vanguard talking up
the labor market being at stall speed on
the precipice perhaps of recession if
you listen to Neil Data of Renmag. Then
others just looking for a reaceleration
that call reaceleration coming almost
exclusively from the equity market balls
but still super super wide range. Well,
it's also coming from people who are
seeing mergers and acquisitions who are
looking at the uh industrial sectors of
the United States. It's almost as though
you look at housing and you look at
certain pockets of consumers and you
say, "Oof, this doesn't look good." And
then you look at the rest of the economy
and you say, "Actually, there's
something else happening here." And
those two are in direct conflict with
one another.
>> 8:15 Eastern time just got an ECB rate
decision unchanged as expected. the
price action going into it and the
numbers we get in 15 minutes time.
Jobless claims in CPI look like this.
We're firmer by two ten of 1% on the S&P
on the NASDAQ up by 0.3. In a bond
market, yields just a little bit higher
across the curve state side. And in the
FX market, Euro dollar unmoved off the
back of this. Euro dollar 11684.
Let's head over to Frankfurt, Germany,
and get you a breakdown of this
decision. Bloomberg's Lizzie Burton
joins us now for more. Good morning,
Lizzy.
Hey John. Well, this hold was very much
expected by economists, by markets as
well. The question is whether the ECB is
done with cutting as economists expect
or whether there's another insurance cut
in the ECB's back pocket as markets had
expected. So for clues, we're looking at
the forecasts here. I'm waiting for the
longer term forecast, but this is
crucial because it's the first batch of
forecasts since that US EU trade deal.
And of course 15% tariffs are higher
than uh had been in the baseline
scenario but not as bad as the severe
scenario. They say that they see 2020 25
inflation at 2.1%. In the previous
forecast they had seen 2% but what we
really are interested in here is the
number for 2027.
Uh they see GDP growth at 1.3% in that
year. Previously they had seen 1.3%. So,
exactly the same, but they're raising
the inflation uh forecast for 2025 26
and cutting it for 2027. Now, that's
what I was looking for here because
perhaps you could take that as the ECB
saying mission accomplished. No more
cuts here. Now, crucially, we need to
see how hawkish Lagard is at the press
conference. In previous recent press
conferences, it has been noted that
Lagard has been more hawkish than the
rest of the governing council or at
least what is on paper here. Maybe there
is a disparity there. Does she emphasize
the uncertainty that this trade deal
alleviates or does she emphasize that
15% is above the base case? I'll be
listening for that. There is also the
big question of French politics, of
course, because once upon a time, Madame
Lagard, as you know, was the French
finance minister. Will she say that the
ECB would intervene if the oats bunt
spread were to widen? Highly unlikely. I
don't think she'll want to wade into
domestic French politics. But just
looking at the euro reaction here,
there's absolutely none. And frankly, it
may be that that CPI print coming in
just a few minutes time does more for
the euro than what was happening here in
Frankfurt.
>> We're not here to close spreads. Feels
like a lifetime ago. Lizzy, thank you.
Lizzy Burden with the latest in
Frankfurt, Germany. Some very mild
marginal movement on the Euro dollar.
Negative on the session now by about 210
of 1%. No predetermined path at the ECB
determined to stabilize inflation around
2%.
>> Yeah. And it seems like based on the
projections to Lizz's point, it looks
like not mission accomplished, but it
may take some idea of a rate hike off
the table for some next year, which was
some people were speculating with the
ECB. This idea that they increase the
inflation expectations for next year but
decrease them uh for the following one
really highlights where they see things
going and how they do see this as sort
of a one-time shock.
>> Let's get over to Puja Camra TV
Securities for more on this story. Puja,
welcome to the program. The ECB not
pre-committing to a particular rate
path. This was widely expected. Puja,
they're forecasting inflation ultimately
to stabilize around 2% out in 26 out in
27. Puja when you look at things could
that story be disrupted by the trade
variations that we've seen already so
far this year
>> uh yeah as in when it comes to forecast
decision everything seems pretty much as
what we had expected uh so far you know
from from ECB perspective they are
basically it's no no longer about
tinkering the policy for the
disinflation process in Europe area it's
basically about the uncertainties and
when it comes to tariffs so have Europe
has actually done a pretty good job. We
are not seeing the kind of disruptions
in terms of growth PMIs but I think can
that domestic resilience actually
continue when the global resilience is
actually being a little more shaky right
now. So I think that's where the ECB
needs to address whether they are done
or there's more to go just because of
the global uncertainty and if the
domestic consumption can be as strong as
what they are expecting going forward.
Well, Puja, as you know, there was a
very simple story being told after April
2nd and the massive tariffs we saw from
the president, particularly the massive
tariffs on China is that China would do
very little to address it over capacity
and because the walls were going up in
America, Europe would have to eat it and
that this shock was actually a
disinflationary shock for the Europeans
when people thought it might be I stress
might be an inflationary shock for the
US economy. Puja, is that no longer the
case looking out to 26?
I think it's definitely the case and
this is something that even the ECB
minutes from July have pointed out. We
are already seeing signs of good dumping
in Europe along with you know lower oil
prices, higher euro USD all is basically
giving you the kind of inflation
forecast that ECB is looking right now.
But I think at this stage they are
looking at as a just one time shock and
they do not want to be very reactive
just because you know even we are the
middle range of their neutral and they
don't want to remove all the capacity of
easing just because of you know sudden
uh just small little jumps in the system
but this is one of the risk that is
being highlighted. How much does uh this
act as a detriment to growth? And I say
this at a time where the economic growth
forecasts in Europe are some 1.2% for
this year. That's higher than expected.
And next year uh coming in at about 1%
below where previously was expected.
Puja, how much is this no longer a
tailwind that the ECB could potentially
consider easing uh even if they aren't
going to necessarily hike?
Um I mean there's always a risk but I
think one thing that has changed in the
European narrative from the 2018 story
that we have lived with tariffs in China
is that Germany is ready to spend. They
are not holding themsel back and you
that's visible in the PMI services. So I
think come I mean at least they ECB
wants to be patient for the next couple
of months as how this defense and
infrastructure spending plays up. He
notes that infrastructure spending has a
good multiplier for growth unlike a
consumptiondriven expenditure. So I
think that's where there are positives
in the system that we should not ignore
and I think that's what ECB wants to
dwell on. But you know they can buy
another four five months but after that
if they don't see the German growth
picking up I think the case for easing
is still there.
>> Puja this is a forgettable decision.
We'll see what actually happens in the
news conference, but right now we're
looking through and this is pretty much
exactly in line. How jealous is the Bank
of England and the Fed that this is sort
of something that can fade into the
background and sort of be a non-event?
>> Uh, sorry, I I I didn't catch you. Just
how unique is this position of the ECB
where they're in a somewhat of a
non-controversial position versus say
the Federal Reserve next week grappling
with inflation and slowing growth while
also the Bank of England dealing with
the deficit and the overhang there.
>> No, no, definitely. I think ECB has
definitely got it easy. I think it's
more I think even Fed when it comes to
labor market, they are getting signs.
They have a dual mandate. They know how
to go with policy forward. But I think
for BOE it's much more tricky when
inflation is just so sticky and even
growth it's actually one of the best
performing G4 economies right now. So I
think for BOE it's more of a painful
decision that how long can they be
actually restrictive uh which is
something you know when trouble comes to
an economy it comes very quickly and I
think that's what even central banks are
right now a bit scared of because they
everyone wants a soft landing right and
ECB did manage to create it so well done
them
>> pa appreciate it puja kamrad securities
reacting to the ECB decision just
moments ago let's go through the
forecast from the ECB so this is
inflation excluding energy and food.
They expect an average of 2.4% in 25,
1.9% in 26, and 1.8% in 27. If that's
mission accomplished, allow me to share
with you their outlook for growth. The
economy is projected to grow by 1.2% in
2025. The growth projection for 26 is
now slightly lower at 1%. The projection
for 27 is unchanged at 1.3%. If that's
mission accomplished, 2% inflation and a
one handle on growth, then Europe's got
a lot to do.
>> Well, and frankly, this highlights how
the ECB is a single mandate bank. It is
inflation and it is focused on that. And
it might be mission accomplished on that
level. It hasn't really changed the
trajectory for the European continent,
which is a reason why so many people
come on and they're saying, "Yeah, you
can increase your exposure uh to Europe,
but all in
>> what happened to all that excitement
about German stimulus over in Europe and
we're looking at one handles on GDP for
growth continent."
>> Yeah, this is the whole thing. What
would it look like without that? And
this is the reason why people aren't
that worried about absorbing the debt
given how little there has been sold so
far and how much there is to do. I
imagine the ECB president in about 20
minutes time when that news conference
starts in Frankfurt, Germany is going to
stress the risks around that outlook
from the ECB. If you're not
pre-committing to a path, I don't think
you're celebrating either. And given the
risks surrounding the trade story,
particularly what it could mean for the
continent too, I don't think the
disinflationary risk from Chinese over
capacity has gone away. And that could
be something they have to confront in
the years to come.
>> What I want to see is the emphasis. Is
it on the disinflationary impact coming
from China or the inflationary impact
coming from tariffs? And that will
determine where the risks are. Is it to
a potential hike or is it to a potential
cut? Should there be a disinflation and
growth that is at this pace?
>> Look what we're hearing from Mexico as
we wake up this morning. Mexico looking
to put the walls up to Chinese imports
to please the United States and
ultimately come to a deal with them next
year.
>> Especially when it comes to things like
autos. China absolutely flooding Mexico
the way it has been flooding Europe. To
your point, it has been surpassing some
of these companies like Tesla when it
comes to growth in Europe because they
are just so cheap.
>> We'll get to the inflation story in just
a moment. CPI just around a corner.
Tiffany Wild of Pimco joins us. David
Kelly of JP Morgan Asset Management. The
inflation data just minutes away.
[Music]
Inflation data just around a corner.
Equity futures, your scores going into
it look like this. Positive by 0.2% on
the S&P, up by 0.3 on the NASDAQ 100. On
the Russell, up by 0.3%. Also, the small
caps very sensitive to what happens here
at the front end of the curve. Two, 10,
and 30s look like this. Your 2-year bond
yields so far this morning at 35519.
yields higher by about a basis point
with your inflation data. Let's cross
over to Mike McKe. Good morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Well, we've got a
hotter than expected reading as CPI on a
month-over-month basis rises 4/10en of a
percent. 3/10en as expected for the
core. The year-over-year rate goes to
2.9% from 2.7%
and the uh core rate goes to 3.1% stays
at 3.1% we should say. The other number
out just now, initial jobless claims,
big jump there, 263,000
last week. Uh don't have the uh previous
revised number, but the unrevised number
was 237. So a significant movement there
in terms of continuing claims,
1,939,000.
That's a drop from 1,940,000.
But remember, those were a week behind.
So they're still reflecting lower rate
uh lower rates of unemployment insurance
filings for uh the month for for the
previous week. Terms of what we got here
uh index for energy was up 7/10en of a
percent. There have been concerns about
the fact that uh AI power plants are uh
raising prices to try to pay for all the
power that the AI people need. Food
increased half a percent. That's going
to be a political problem for the
president. and food at home up 6/10en of
a percent. Uh airline fairs, used cars,
trucks, uh apparel, new vehicles all
rose. I'll get you those figures in just
a moment. But uh the uh index overall
for services is something that we are
concerned about. And services uh less
energy. The core services rate was up
310en of a percent. That's a little bit
of a decline from 4/10 last month which
scared uh overall uh economists but uh
still this number is nothing to write
home about for the Fed. Probably not
enough to dissuade them from or to
persuade them to do 50 basis points or
dissuade them from 25 but it is still a
higher number than forecast.
>> Mike McKe I'll get to the markets. We'll
come back to you in just a moment. Stay
close. So we've got a bit of tension
here. Small upside surprise on headline
CPI but a big upside surprise. the wrong
kind of upside surprise on jobless
claims. What wins out, you decide. I
don't have a view, but the chairman
does. The chairman of the Federal
Reserve has told you that the labor
market is the thing that he's focused on
right now. So, push that view through
the bond market at the moment, and we're
trading on claims. Yields are down at
the front end of the curve by six basis
points, 348. The dollar's weaker. Euro
dollar back through 117. Equities
positive. Brammo by a quarter of 1%.
Yeah, if you take a look at the 4-week
moving average of initial jobless
claims, they came in at the highest pace
going back to June, but the fastest pace
of increase in that metric going back to
December of 2020. To the extent that we
saw downward revisions, the labor market
very much front and center for the
market. What I would suggest is this is
a market that is gaming out a longer
term weakness in the labor market that
suppresses yields across the curve. This
isn't just the front end. I think that
that is telling you something.
>> Mike McKe, you've got a second look.
What'd you see?
>> Well, right now we're looking at new car
prices up by uh 6% according to this or
no, that's used car prices, I'm sorry.
You uh new car prices up by 7/10en of a
percent. So, uh big rise in new car
prices, but an even bigger rise in used
car prices. That's been in the wholesale
data for a while. Uh apparel prices were
flat after falling 3/10en of a percent
last month. So maybe a little bit of the
uh tiff the tariff uh impact is hitting
there. Remember yesterday retail and
wholesale margins compressed suggesting
that some of that is being absorbed by
middle people. Uh gasoline prices were
down 6.6% now uh uh on a year-over-year
basis down 7/10en of a percent uh in
terms of uh down 1.7% I'm sorry in terms
of the month-over-month numbers. And uh
that didn't keep us from getting a much
higher uh rate of inflation for the
headline.
>> Mike McKe, appreciate the update.
Michael, thank you. Joining us now is
Tiffany Welding of PIMCO. Tiffany,
welcome to the program. Is there a
stagflationary like mix coming together
here on the data that you see?
>> Yeah. Um so I I think we're getting what
we expected on inflation. We're getting
some pass through of tariffs. Um it
looks like it's um predominantly the
firming categories are in goods. Um and
and otherwise um things look a little
bit better. I think the more concerning
news from the data this morning is the
jump in claims. Um we it's been
relatively contained despite the labor
market, you know, really slowing to a
halt over the last year. Um and and now
the jump today looks a little bit more
concerning like we're moving out of of
just a period of of you know, very
little activity or very little hiring or
firing, you know, to potentially some
more separations. And that's certainly
that's going to be super concerning I
think for the Federal Reserve. Um you
know I agree with Mike McKe. I think
overall the data this morning I think
confirms a 25 basis point cut. Um
there's probably going to be discussion
around 50 although that's not our base
case. Um you know and I think there's
there's reasons if you continue to see
this kind of momentum on the labor
market um you know to get several more
cuts in the back half of the year. You
know, Tiffany, what I find interesting
about the market reaction is that yes,
they're picking up on this idea that
claims came in the wrong kind of upside
surprise, as John was saying, and that
the trailing uh average is picking up at
a remarkable and alarming speed. But
that longer term, we're seeing the
10-year yield now break below 4% for the
first time uh this year. I mean, we're
looking at a tenure that is also
responding. Are you changing your longer
term trajectory for US growth prospects
in the heels of some of these labor
market revisions and the sort of
negativity that we're seeing from the
claims?
Well, you know, I I think that um you
know, just the fact that that the US
Treasury market continues to be a hedge
for um for macroeconomic risks for uh
riskier asset volatility um you know, I
think is is is why you're seeing
movements um you know, in the longer end
of the interest rate curve. You know, I
think when when we look at you know,
sort of valuations, you know, we think
kind of intermediate uh sector looks
attractive here. um does still provide
risk, you know, against downside
protection um you know, and it it's
something that um you know, that we've
we've been very focused on. So, it's not
surprising necessarily uh to me that
you're seeing it in longer dated
interest rates. You know, I mean, I
think I think overall on the you know,
on the economy side, you know, we are
really entering this kind of period of
weakness, potential weakness. Um you
know, we'll see some fiscal supports
that are offsetting um the tariff
effects, but they don't kick in until,
you know, the beginning of of 2026. you
know, call it February, March, when when
consumers are starting to get really big
refunds from retroactive tax cuts. Um,
but until then, we're we're really kind
of in this period of weakness. And and
to us, the question is some of these
smaller and mid-size businesses that are
really having to shoulder uh the effects
of tariffs. Maybe they're not getting as
much benefit from the one big beautiful
bill tax cuts. You know, can they really
hold on here without firing people? Um,
you know, and it seems like, you know,
maybe there's um there's more concern
around that. um you know as as we as
we're as we're watching the data.
>> Tiffany Welding of Pimco. Tiffany, great
to catch up with you. I know you've got
to catch up with clients, too. So,
thanks for making time for us this
morning. This move in the bond market,
this data is good for bonds. It's
questionable for equities. Equity
futures just about unchanged. We'll see
if this move sticks, but at the front
end of the curve, we're down six basis
points. And as Lisa pointed out, we're
down across the curve. And this is
largely because of the way the Federal
Reserve chair set things up coming into
September. He basically told us the
following, that you could have a one-off
effect on inflation, but not all at
once. And the labor market data was
concerning him, which is why we're
seeing yields down this morning because
there's much more emphasis on what we're
seeing on claims.
>> And it seems like the idea that you're
seeing a pickup in layoffs to Tiffany's
point raises the question of how
companies are adapting to some of the
higher input costs. I was looking at
some of the uh specifics here in the CPI
print. airline fairs up 5.9% on the
monthly basis. So again, it talks about
the K-shaped economy and how the Fed is
trying to cater to people who cannot
afford to pay that. Those who can are.
>> David Kelly of JP Morgan Asset
Management standing by. David, you've
been looking at the data. Just want your
first reaction, please.
>> Uh I think both with regard to the CPI
and with regard to the claims, uh
everyone should sort of take a deep
breath and not overreact to them. uh on
claims. Key thing to think about is last
week was a week that contained a Monday
bank holiday or Monday a bank holiday
you call in in in the UK but a Monday
holiday Labor Day. The unemployment
claims data are notoriously bad in a
week that contains a public holiday.
They've just have never figured out how
to seasonally adjust that properly. So I
think that's an overshoot on claims and
I would not be surprised to see that
number come down next week. Now it still
fits into a mosaic of a slowing labor
market and I don't deny that. I think
the economy is gradually grinding to a
halt here. But I think that overstates
the deterioration in the labor market.
And then similarly on uh the uh on
inflation, these numbers are very close
to in line with what we thought. The big
surprises were probably an increase in
motor vehicle repair costs, 2.4% month
overmonth. Um and then as was just
saying a 5.9% increase in airline fairs,
but remember they fell very sharply over
the course of the summer as airline
travel was down. Now it's picking up
again in this K-shaped economy. So
overall, the economy is still moving
forward slowly. Inflation's gradually
going up. The economy is gradually
slowing down. That's what that's what we
thought tariffs are going to do. It's
going to slow growth and it's going to
add to inflation. Um but I don't think
it's nearly as dramatic as either of
these numbers suggest this morning.
>> Well, David, let's just stay on the
labor market story because that seems to
be what the market is moving on, at
least initially. You think the claims
data maybe overstates the weakness. Do
you think the step down in payrolls
growth overstates the weakness, too?
Uh no I mean we saw the big down
revision yesterday that earlier this
week that was not a surprise. Um no I
mean there's there's weakness. The thing
is as J Pal has pointed out it's a very
curious kind of labor market because
we're having a huge reduction in labor
supply at the same time. So this does
not speak of significant you know labor
market weakness. I mean it's still a
tight market. It's still hard to find
good people. Um, but I do think it's it
reflects the fact that people that
businesses don't want to hire here. I
don't think there's a huge ongoing jump
in layoffs, but it's getting harder and
harder to find a job because businesses
are just frozen because they don't know
what the playing field is going to be
with regard to tariffs going forward.
And I think that is, you know, the the
that's the biggest thing that I think
people are ignoring here.
>> David, a lot of people are hoping that
things pick up in 2026, that the growth
story gets better, fueled by the rate
cuts we're about to see. Speaking of
things maybe that we underappreciate,
something you've been talking about for
a while, this tax bill, the kind of
stimulatory effect it might have in 26.
Could you just sort of outline that for
us this morning?
>> Absolutely. Really important. All these
new tax cuts getting rid of the tax on
tips over time, increase the standard
deduction and so forth. The the soul tax
break, all of them were made retroactive
to January 1, 2025. But the IRS has not
changed withholding schedules. That
means that there's going to be basically
a full year's worth of refunds on all of
those tax breaks kick in in the first
few weeks of 2026 or first few months of
2026. That is the equivalent of big
stimulus checks. Last year, the average
income tax refund was about $3,200. This
next year in 2026, we think it's going
to be over $4,000 with 70% of households
receiving that. That is like one big
stimulus check, one big lump of sugar
put into the economy early next year. So
if we can get to the first quarter
without slipping into recession, there
is uh you know there'll be some stimulus
there. But I do think that between now
and then the economy is going to be
slowing in the fourth quarter. David,
appreciate it. David Kelly there of JP
Morgan Asset Management. The data coming
in a bit hotter than expected on CPI,
but the claims numbers not pretty. Now
David thinks maybe that overstates the
weakness in this labor market, but at
the moment this bond market is trading
on it. Yields are lower across the
curve. Twos to 30s. We're down about six
basis points on twos. We're down four on
tens. The questionable story, what does
that data mean for the equity market?
Equity futures positive by about a tenth
of 1%. Up next, an ECB president
Christine Lagard taking over the news
conference in Frankfurt, Germany. From
New York City, you're watching Bloomberg
TV.
[Music]
Live from New York City. Welcome back to
the program. We want to pause now for a
moment of silence being held throughout
the city of New York in remembrance of
the September 11th terror attacks. At
this time 24 years ago, hijacked
American Airlines Flight 11 struck the
North Tower of the World Trade Center.
duty. You're trying to
Right. Break mark.
Heat.
[Music]
[Applause]
We'll bring you the next moment of
silence at 9:03
Eastern. in time. In the meantime, I
want to take you to Frankfurt, Germany,
where ECB President Christine Lagard is
giving a news conference.